https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2018/34-83506.pdf

I.0.0.0 Introduction

II.0.0.0 Final Amendments

	II.A.0.0 Changes to Conform to the Improvement Act

	II.B.0.0 Amendments to Certain Procedural Provisions

	II.C.0.0 Revisions to Fee Provisions

	II.D.0.0 Elimination of Certain Provisions

	II.E.0.0 Structure of the Final Rule

III.0.0.0 Public Comments

	III.A.0.0 Section 200.80(g)(2)(iv) (Definition of educational institution)

	III.B.0.0 Section 200.80(g)(2)(v) (Definition of noncommercial scientific institution)

	III.C.0.0 Section 200.80(g)(2)(vi) (Definition of representative of the news media or news media requester)

IV.0.0.0 Other Matters

V.0.0.0 Economic Analysis

		V.C.2.0 records will be withheld under the exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) only if Commission staff reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by the applicable exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law; (3) FOIA requesters may seek assistance from the Office of FOIA Services’ FOIA Public Liaisons and will be advised that they have the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services if their request is denied; and (4) the Office of FOIA Services is required to waive fees, in certain circumstances, if it does not comply with the time limits under the FOIA. The Commission believes that these changes will have minimal impact on FOIA requesters because they largely codify the Commission’s existing practices. To the extent the amendments result in these practices being followed more consistently, they could benefit the public by increasing the amount of information available, making more information available in an electronic format, and ensuring that requesters know of their right to seek alternative dispute resolution. The Commission also believes that the public could benefit from the increased transparency regarding these practices. The Commission does not expect these amendments to result in additional costs to any member of the public.

VI.0.0.0 Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

VII.0.0.0 Paperwork Reduction Act

VIII.0.0.0 Statutory Authority and Text of Rule Amendments



<END TABLE OF CONTENTS>

Conformed to Federal Register version

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 17 CFR Part <sup>200</sup>

[Release Nos. 34-83506; FOIA-193; File No. S7-09-17] RIN 3235-AM25

Amendments to the Commission’s Freedom of Information Act Regulations AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION: Final rule.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) is adopting amendments to the Commission’s regulations under the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”). The Commission is amending the FOIA regulations to reflect changes required by the FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 (“Improvement Act”) and to clarify, update, and streamline the regulations.

DATES: Effective [ insert date 30 days after date of publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER ].

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Tallarico, Senior Counsel, Office of the General Counsel, (202) 551-5132; Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-5041.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

<END HEADER>

<h>I. Introduction</h>

On December 21, 2017, the Commission proposed amendments to its existing regulations under the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552, <sup>1</sup> to reflect changes required by the Improvement Act and to clarify, update, and streamline the language of several procedural provisions. The Commission received four comment letters on the proposed amendments. After consideration of the comments received, the Commission is adopting the amendments to its FOIA regulations as proposed, other than changes to two definitions related to the collection of fees and a few technical modifications for clarity. Due to the scope of the amendments, thisfinal rule replaces the Commission’s existing FOIA regulations in their entirety (17 CFR 200.80 through 200.80f).

<h>II. Final Amendments</h>

<h>A. Changes to Conform to the Improvement Act</h>

The Commission is adopting four changes to the Commission’s FOIA regulations to conform them to the Improvement Act. These changes are being adopted largely as proposed. <sup>2</sup> First, the final rule revises Section 200.80(a) to provide that records the FOIA requires to be made available for public inspection will be available in electronic format on the Commission’s website, http://www.sec.gov .

Second, the final rule revises Section 200.80(c) to provide that a request for records may be denied to the extent the exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) apply to the requested records and Commission staff reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by the applicable exemption, the disclosure of the requested records is prohibited by law, or the requested records are otherwise exempted from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3). Third, the final rule revises the regulations to state that FOIA requesters may seek assistance from the Office of FOIA Services’ FOIA Public Liaisons (Sections 200.80(b), (d), and (e)) and to advise FOIA requesters of their right to seek dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services in the case of a denied request (Section 200.80(e)). Fourth, the final rule incorporates the amendments to the FOIA requiring agencies, if they do not comply with the time limits, to waive fees, under certain circumstances (Section 200.80(g)).

<h>B. Amendments to Certain Procedural Provisions</h>

The final amendments also revise certain procedural provisions. Those changes clarify, update, and streamline the Commission’s regulations, and most of the changes make the regulations consistent with existing practices. These changes are being largely adopted as proposed. <sup>3</sup> The amended regulations,among other things, update the various methods for submitting FOIA requests and administrative appeals (Sections 200.80(b) and (f)); incorporate language requiring requesters to include their full names and return addresses in their FOIA requests (Section 200.80(b)); describe certain information that is required when submitting requests for records about oneself or another individual (Section 200.80(b)); explain the situations in which the Office of FOIA Services staff will work with other Federal agencies that have an interest in agency records that may be responsive to a request (Section 200.80(c)); incorporate language that allows the Office of FOIA Services to seek a one-time clarification of an ambiguous request and toll the time period for responding to the request until the requester clarifies the request (Section 200.80(d)); clarify when the 20-day statutory time limit for responding to requests begins (i.e., when requests are received by the Office of FOIA Services and when requests are modified so that they reasonably describe the records sought) (Section 200.80(d)); clarify the Office of FOIA Services’ system for multitrack processing of requests (Section 200.80(d)); and insert a provision to enable the Office of FOIA Services to aggregate requests involving related matters where it appears that multiple requests together constitute a single request that would involve unusual circumstances (Section 200.80(d)).

The final rule also clarifies, consistent with existing practice, that the Office of FOIA Services will close requests if requesters do not take certain steps within set time periods. For example, requesters must respond to the Office of FOIA Services’ one-time clarification request within 30 calendar days (Section 200.80(d)); agree to pay anticipated fees within 30 calendar days of the Office of FOIA Services’ fee estimate (Section 200.80(g)); and, when required to do so, make an advance payment within 30 calendar days of the Office of FOIA Services’ fee notice (Section 200.80(g)).as to why the records requested should be made available and why the adverse determination was in error” to “Appeals should include a statement of the requester’s arguments as to why the records requested should be made available and the reason(s) the FOIA requester contends the adverse determination was in error.”

<h>C. Revisions to Fee Provisions</h>

Section 200.80(g) of the final rule revises the Office of FOIA Services’ fee procedures and fee schedule in two ways. Both of these changes are being adopted as proposed. First, the final rule allows the Office of FOIA Services to collect fees before sending records to a requester instead of seeking payment when the records are sent (Section 200.80(g)(1)). Second, the final rule removes the set duplication fee of 24 cents per page and instead refers requesters to the FOIA fee page on the Commission’s website, where the current fee will be posted (Section 200.80(g)(3)(v)). <sup>4</sup> The duplication fee posted on the website will reflect the direct costs of photocopying or producing a printout, taking into account various factors including the salary of the employee(s) performing the work and the cost of materials. The duplication fee posted on the Commission’s website will be adjusted as appropriate to reflect current costs. Eliminating the set duplication fee will allow the Office of FOIA Services to align its photocopying and printout fees with the actual costs of duplicating records for production to requesters (in paper format) without having to amend the regulations.

As proposed, the final rule also codifies several existing practices. For example, it states that fees for duplicating records onto electronic medium (including the costs associated with scanning materials, where applicable) will be the direct costs of duplicating records for requesters (Section 200.80(g)(3)(v)); clarifies that the Office of FOIA Services will not process any requests once it determines that a fee may be charged unless the requester commits to pay any estimated fees (Section 200.80(g)(5)(ii)); clarifies the direct costs that can be charged by the Office of FOIA Services as part of search, review, and duplication fees (Section 200.80(g)(3)); and sets forth the various methods by which FOIA processing fees can be paid (Section 200.80(g)(1)).

The final rule also revises existing fee-related definitions and incorporates new fee-related definitions (Section 200.80(g)(2)). As discussed below, some of these definitions have been slightly revised in the final rule in response to comments received on the proposed rule. <sup>5</sup>

<h>D. Elimination of Certain Provisions</h>

As proposed, the final rule eliminates certain provisions in the Commission’s current FOIA regulations that repeat information contained in the FOIA statute and do not need to be in the Commission’s regulations. Among the provisions that the Commission is removing are: (1) the list of information the FOIA requires the Commission to publish in the Federal Register (Section 200.80(a)(1) of the superseded regulations), (2) the categories of records the FOIA requires the Commission to make available for public inspection (Section 200.80(a)(2) of the superseded regulations), and (3) the nine categories of records that are exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (Section 200.80(b) of the superseded regulations). Finally, the final rule eliminates Appendices A through F from the existing FOIA regulations. Appendices A through D and F of the existing regulations provide general information that is available on the Commission’s website to the extent it is relevant to the public. The information in Appendix E of the existing regulations is revised and updated and moved to Section 200.80(g) (Fees) of the final rule.

<h>E. Structure of the Final Rule</h>

The structure of the regulations is amended accordingly: Section 200.80(a) (General provisions); Section 200.80(b) (Requirements for making requests); Section 200.80(c) (Processing requests); Section 200.80(d) (Time limits and expedited processing); Section 200.80(e) (Responses to requests); Section 200.80(f) (Administrative appeals); and Section 200.80(g) (Fees).

<h>III. Public Comments</h>

The Commission received four comment letters in response to the proposed rulemaking. Two of the comments concern definitions in the fee provisions of the proposed rule and suggest substantive changes to the Commission’s proposed fee definitions. <sup>6</sup> One comment suggests technical clarifications to some of the Commission’s FOIA procedures. <sup>7</sup> The final letter supports certain provisions in the proposed rule. <sup>8</sup> The Commission has considered the comments received and, as discussed below, in certain cases has made modifications in the final amendments in response to those comments.

In proposing the definitions in the fee provisions of the proposed rule, the Commission considered the FOIA’s directive that agencies “promulgate regulations . . . specifying the schedule of fees applicable to the processing of requests . . . [and that] [s]uch schedule shall conform to the guidelines which shall be promulgated . . . by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget [(“OMB”)].” <sup>9</sup> In light of this directive, the Commission looked to the definitions in the OMB’s 1987 FOIA fee guidelines except to the extent that courts have held that the definitions are not consistent with the FOIA. <sup>10</sup>

<h>A. Section 200.80(g)(2)(iv) (Definition of educational institution)</h>

One commenter expressed concern that the Commission’s definition of “educational institution” in proposed Section 200.80(g)(2)(iv) is inconsistent with the FOIA provision that addresses fees that agencies can charge when “records are not sought for commercial use and the request is made by an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research.” <sup>11</sup> The commenter stated that the Commission’s proposed definition of “educational institution” “deviatesfrom the statute in two respects” – the definition “omits reference to ‘scientific research’” and it “requires that the purpose of the request be ‘to further scholarly research’ whereas the statute requires only that the educational institution have a purpose of scholarly or scientific research.” <sup>12</sup>

The FOIA does not define the term “educational institution.” The Commission’s proposed definition of “educational institution” did not include a reference to “scientific research” because in promulgating its fee guidelines, the OMB found that “the statute and the legislative history recite the formula ‘educational or scientific institution/scholarly or scientific research,’ and it seems clear that the phrase was meant to be read disjunctively so that scholarly applies to educational institution and scientific applies to non-commercial scientific institution.” <sup>13</sup> In addition, “scholarly research” is a broad term that would generally include “scientific research.” Accordingly, the Commission does not believe it is necessary to include “scientific research” as part of its definition of “educational institution.”

In response to the commenter’s suggestion to remove from the definition of “educational institution” the requirement that the records are sought to “further scholarly research,” the Commission is deleting this language from the definition and is inserting language to clarify that the requester must show that the request is made in connection with the requester’s role at the educational institution and that the records are not sought for commercial or personal use. The definition of “educational institution” in the final rule at §200.80(g)(2)(iv) is thus revised to read:

Educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with the requester’s role at the educational institution and that the records are not sought for commercial or personal use.

<h>B. Section 200.80(g)(2)(v) (Definition of noncommercial scientific institution)</h>

One commenter expressed concern that the Commission’s proposed definition of “noncommercial scientific institution” in proposed §200.80(g)(2)(v) is inconsistent with the FOIA“because it imposes additional limitations and conditions not found in the statutory definition.” <sup>14</sup> This commenter stated that the FOIA, unlike the proposed rule, “does not require (i) that the institution be operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, or (ii) that the request is being made under the auspices of a qualifying institution.” <sup>15</sup>

The Commission believes that its proposed definition of “noncommercial scientific institution” is consistent with the FOIA. The FOIA does not define the term “noncommercial scientific institution” and the Commission has adopted the definition from the OMB’s FOIA fee guidelines. Those guidelines provide that the “term ‘non-commercial scientific institution’ refers to an institution that is not operated on a ‘commercial’ basis . . . and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.” <sup>16</sup> The OMB guidelines further state that “[t]o be eligible for inclusion [in the noncommercial scientific institution] category, requesters must show that the request is being made as authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of . . . scientific . . . research.” <sup>17</sup> Accordingly, the Commission is adopting the proposed definition of “noncommercial scientific institution” in Section 200.80(g)(2)(v) of the final rule without change.

<h>C. Section 200.80(g)(2)(vi) (Definition of representative of the news media or news media requester)</h>

Two commenters expressed concern that the Commission’s proposed definition of “representative of the news media” or “news media requester” is inconsistent with the statutory definition. <sup>18</sup> Both commenters noted that the statutory definition does not require a “news media requester” to be “organizedand operated to publish or broadcast news to the public.” <sup>19</sup> One of the commenters specifically recommended striking the “organized and operated” standard from the definition. <sup>20</sup> In response to these comments, the Commission has omitted the “organized and operated” language in the final rule.

One commenter addressed three additional considerations related to the Commission’s proposed definition of “news media requester.” <sup>21</sup> This commenter first recommended further revising the proposed definition of “news media requester” by deleting the last sentence of the proposed definition (“The Office of FOIA Services will determine whether to grant a requester news media status on a case- by-case basis based upon the requester’s intended use of the requested material.”) because “the statute’s focus [is] on requesters, rather than [their] requests.” <sup>22</sup> In response to this recommendation, the Commission has removed the final sentence from the definition of “news media requester” in the final rule.

This commenter also recommended that the Commission recognize that a news media requester may use “editorial skills” to turn “raw materials into a distinct work” when writing documents such as press releases and editorial comments, as the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stated in Cause of Action v. Federal Trade Commission . <sup>23</sup> The commenter did not recommend any changes to the rule to address this issue, and the Commission believes none are necessary. <sup>24</sup> The Commission, as appropriate, will consider Cause of Action and any other relevant precedents in applying the fee provisions in its regulations.

Finally, this commenter recommended that the Commission “should indicate [in its definition of “news media requester”] that any examples of news media entities it may include in its regulations are non-exhaustive.” <sup>25</sup> The Commission is not making any changes in response to this comment because the definition in the final rule does not contain any examples of news media entities.

<h>IV. Other Matters</h>

If any of the provisions of these amendments, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

<h>V. Economic Analysis</h>

The Commission is sensitive to the economic effects, including the costs and benefits, that result from its rules. Section 23(a)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) requires the Commission, in making rules pursuant to any provision of the Exchange Act, to consider among other matters the impact any such rule would have on competition and prohibits any rule that would impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. <sup>26</sup> Further, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when engaging in rulemaking where it is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. <sup>27</sup>

As explained in the proposal and discussed further below, the Commission believes that the economic effects of the final rule will be limited. The Commission notes that, where possible, it has attempted to quantify the costs, benefits, and effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formationexpected to result from the proposed amendments. In some cases, however, the Commission is unable to quantify the economic effects because it lacks the information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate. Additionally, some of the potential benefits of the amendments are inherently difficult to quantify.

The amendments to the Commission’s FOIA regulations fall into four categories. First, as discussed in more detail above, the Commission is amending its regulations to conform the regulations to the Improvement Act. Consistent with the Improvement Act, the amended rule provides: (1) records required to be made available pursuant to the FOIA will be made available in electronic format;

<h>2. records will be withheld under the exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) only if Commission staff reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by the applicable exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law; (3) FOIA requesters may seek assistance from the Office of FOIA Services’ FOIA Public Liaisons and will be advised that they have the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services if their request is denied; and (4) the Office of FOIA Services is required to waive fees, in certain circumstances, if it does not comply with the time limits under the FOIA. The Commission believes that these changes will have minimal impact on FOIA requesters because they largely codify the Commission’s existing practices. To the extent the amendments result in these practices being followed more consistently, they could benefit the public by increasing the amount of information available, making more information available in an electronic format, and ensuring that requesters know of their right to seek alternative dispute resolution. The Commission also believes that the public could benefit from the increased transparency regarding these practices. The Commission does not expect these amendments to result in additional costs to any member of the public.</h>

Second, the final rule will amend several procedural provisions within the Commission’s FOIA regulations, which will better reflect and improve existing practice. Most of these changes codify existing Office of FOIA Services practice, including: (1) adding to the regulation additional methods for submitting FOIA requests and administrative appeals; (2) clarifying the existing procedures for submitting requests for records about oneself or another individual; (3) clarifying the existing procedures for submitting a proper FOIA request and seeking clarification of a request; (4) clarifying existingprocedures for submitting an administrative appeal; and (5) clarifying the existing practice that limits administrative appeals to written filings (i.e., there is no opportunity for personal appearance, oral argument, or hearing on appeal). The Commission does not expect these changes to result in additional costs to any member of the public. The Commission also expects that there would be some benefit to FOIA requesters from the increased transparency regarding these practices.

Two procedural changes could impose limited costs on members of the public. First, FOIA requesters will be required to include their full names and addresses in their requests. Providing a full name and address is not itself burdensome, but some requesters may prefer to remain anonymous and could be deterred from submitting FOIA requests by this requirement. However, because nearly all FOIA requesters provide this information already, the Commission expects that the economic impact of the amendment will be minimal. Second, the Office of FOIA Services will be able to aggregate related requests from one requester (or a group of requesters). The Office of FOIA Services can aggregate requests that on their own do not involve “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the amended regulations, or warrant placement in a track for complex requests (i.e., requests that require more work and/or time to process than most requests), so aggregation may lead to extended deadlines for processing a request or cause a request to be handled after other complex requests. Based on past experience, the Commission expects that few requests will be aggregated. In addition, if the aggregation of requests results in the requests being placed in a track for complex requests that could extend the processing time, the requester can modify the request so that it can be processed more quickly. Thus, the Commission expects that the impact of this amendment also will be minimal.

Third, the Commission is revising the Office of FOIA Services’ fee procedures and fee schedule in several ways, including: (1) eliminating from the rule the per page duplication fee for copying or printing requested records, and instead referring requesters to the FOIA fee page on the Commission’s website; (2) allowing the Office of FOIA Services to collect fees before sending records to a requester instead of seeking payment when the records are sent; (3) clarifying the direct costs that can be charged by the Office of FOIA Services as part of its search, review, and duplication fees; and (4) codifying theexisting Office of FOIA Services practice of charging requesters the actual cost of production for materials produced in an electronic format. In general, lowering fees associated with FOIA requests could encourage additional FOIA submissions, while raising fees could deter them. However, as discussed below, the Commission does not anticipate that any of its changes to the Office of FOIA Services’ fee procedures will impose significant new costs on FOIA requesters.

With respect to the elimination of the set per page duplication fee, the Office of FOIA Services has already lowered its per page duplication fee from 24 cents to 15 cents to reflect its actual duplication costs. Even if the Office of FOIA Services were to increase the per page duplication fee in the future, the impact of any increase would likely be minimal. Information about the fees the Commission has collected for FOIA requests for the past seven years allows the Commission to estimate the economic effects of this proposed change. Table 1 shows the number of requests received and processed by the Commission during fiscal years 2011 through 2017 and the fees the Commission collected. The fees collected by the Commission for processing FOIA requests include charges for staff time associated with locating, reviewing, and copying responsive documents, as well as duplication fees for paper copies and production costs for other types of media. The fee schedule for FOIA requests is available on the Commission’s website.

As shown in Table 1, from fiscal years 2011-2017, the Office of FOIA Services collected an average of $37,164.71 per year in fees for processing an average of 13,466 requests. These amountscorrespond to an average fee of $2.76 collected per request processed. <sup>28</sup> Even if all of those fees were for duplication (which they were not), a one cent per page increase in duplication fees would result in an increase in total fees collected of approximately $1,548.53, <sup>29</sup> corresponding to an average fee of $2.87 collected per request processed. <sup>30</sup>

With respect to the amendment providing that the FOIA Office can collect fees before sending records to a requester (instead of seeking payment when the records are sent), the Commission expects that any additional cost will be limited to a slight delay in receiving documents. The timing of the collection will not itself impose any additional costs on FOIA requesters because the timing would not alter the amount of fees charged. Any delay in receiving the documents will not be significant because a FOIA requester could make an electronic payment upon receipt of the request for payment, and the Office of FOIA Services would then provide the documents. The Commission notes that some requesters may choose to forgo receiving the records in question if the fees are substantial, though even this impact may be muted because requesters will have been advised of and approved potential charges before requests are processed by the FOIA Office.

The clarification regarding direct costs and codification of existing practices with respect to fees for materials produced in an electronic format are consistent with existing practices, and the Commission therefore does not expect these amendments to impose any additional burden on the public. The other changes to the Office of FOIA Services’ fee procedures also codify existing processes and will therefore not impose any additional burden on requesters. These changes include: (1) clarifying that the Office of FOIA Services will not process any requests once it determines that a fee may be charged unless the requester commits to pay the estimated fees; and (2) adding and clarifying certain fee-related definitions.

The Commission does not expect these amendments to result in additional costs to any member of the public. To the contrary, the Commission believes that the public could benefit from the increased transparency regarding these practices. As discussed above, some of the fee-related definitions have been revised in the final rule in response to comments on the proposed rule. Specifically, the Commission has revised the definitions of “educational institution” and “representative of the news media” or “news media requester.” The revisions serve to clarify and broaden the scope of existing definitions, which may benefit some requesters. The Commission does not expect these revisions to result in additional costs to any member of the public.

Finally, the final rule will eliminate certain provisions in the SEC’s FOIA regulations that are restatements of provisions in the FOIA statute. The Commission does not expect these amendments to result in any economic effects, as the elimination of these redundant provisions will not have any substantive consequence.

The Commission requested comments on all aspects of the benefits and costs of the proposal. No commenter addressed the economic analysis contained in the proposal. The Commission continues to believe that the amendments to the Commission’s FOIA regulations will not have any significant impact on efficiency, competition, or capital formation.

<h>VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification</h>

Pursuant to Section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, <sup>31</sup> the Commission certified that, when adopted, the amendments to 17 CFR 200.80 would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This certification, including our basis for the certification, was included in the proposing release. The Commission solicited comments on the appropriateness of its certification, but received none. The Commission is adopting the final rules as modified and discussed above. These modifications to the proposal would not alter the basis upon which the certification was made.

<h>VII. Paperwork Reduction Act</h>

The Commission stated in the proposed release that the proposed amendments to the FOIA regulations do not contain any collection of information as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). <sup>32</sup> The Commission also determined that the proposed amendments would not create any new filing, reporting, recordkeeping, or disclosure reporting requirements. Accordingly, the Commission did not submit the proposed amendments to the Office of Management and Budget for review under the PRA. <sup>33</sup> The Commission solicited comments on whether its conclusion that there are no new collections of information is correct, and it did not receive any comments.

<h>VIII. Statutory Authority and Text of Rule Amendments</h>

<END MAIN TEXT>

1 See Release No. 34-82373 (Dec. 21, 2017), 83 FR 291 (Jan. 3, 2018) (“Proposing Release”).

2 The Commission is making one technical, clarifying modification from the proposal. Specifically, in the first sentence of Section 200.80(a)(2)(ii), the word “Those” is changed to “Persons.”

3 The Commission is making one technical, clarifying modification from the proposal. Specifically, the third sentence of Section 200-.80(f)(3), is changed from “Appeals should include a statement of the requester’s arguments

4 The initial posted fee will be 15 cents per page, and the Commission is already charging this lower cost.

5 The Commission is also making several technical, clarifying modifications from the proposal in the fee provisions. In the first sentence of Section 200.80(g)(3), the phrase “shall charge the fees summarized in chart form…” is changed to “shall charge fees for the services summarized in chart form…” to more accurately describe the chart. In the first sentence of Section 200.80(g)(3)(ii)(B), the phrase “ to locate records” is changed to “to locate or identify responsive records” so as to more precisely describe the search. In Section 200.80(g)(12)(ii), the phrase “shall consider all four of the following factors” is changed to “shall consider each of the following four factors.”

6 See letter from Ryan P. Mulvey, Counsel, Cause of Action Institute, dated January 3, 2018 (“CoA Institute letter”); letter from Keith P. Bishop, dated January 12, 2018 (“Bishop letter”)

7 See letter from Rachel Wood, dated April 27, 2018.

8 See letter from Lori Gayle Nuckolls, dated January 22, 2018.

9 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(i).

10 Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines, 52 Fed. Reg. at 10,018 (March 27, 1987).

11 See Bishop letter (quoting 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)(ii)(II)).

12 See Bishop letter.

13 52 Fed. Reg. at 10,014.

14 See Bishop letter.

15 Id.

16 52 Fed. Reg. at 10,018.

17 52 Fed. Reg. at 10,019.

18 See Bishop letter; CoA Institute letter.

19 Id.

20 See CoA Institute letter.

21 Id.

22 Id. (citing Cause of Action v. Federal Trade Commission 799 F.3d 1108, 1121 (D.C. Cir. 2015)).

23 Id. (citing Cause of Action, 799 F.3d at 1122-25).

24 Id.

25 Id.

26 15 U.S.C. 78w(a).

27 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

28 Calculated as $37,164.71 /13,466 = $2.76.

29 To arrive at this estimated increase, we divide $37,164.71 in duplication fees by a cost of $0.24 per page to derive an estimate of approximately 154,853 pages of copies on average per fiscal year. 154,853 pages x $0.01 increase in per-page duplication fees = $1,548.53 in additional total processing fees.

30 Calculated as ($37,164.71+$1,548.53) /13,466 = $2.87.

31 5 U.S.C. 605(b).

32 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

33 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.