https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/34-41936.htm

	I.0.0.0: I. Executive Summary

	II.0.0.0: II. Background Of Proposals And Commenters' Concerns

		II.A.0.0: A. Background

		II.B.0.0: B. Comments Regarding International Disclosure Standards

		II.C.0.0: C. Comments Regarding Elimination of Rule 3-19

		II.D.0.0: D. Specific Changes to Registration and Report Forms

		II.E.0.0: E. "Foreign Private Issuer" Definition

	III.0.0.0: III. Effective Dates And Transition Provisions

	IV.0.0.0: IV. Cost-Benefit Analysis

	VI.0.0.0: VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

	VII.0.0.0: VII. Paperwork Reduction Act

	VIII.0.0.0: VIII. Statutory Basis And Text Of Amendments



<END TABLE OF CONTENTS>

Final Rule:

International Disclosure Standards Securities and Exchange Commission 17 CFR Parts 210, 228, 229, 230, 239, 240, 249 and 260 [Release Nos. 33-7745; 34-41936; International Series Release No. 1205] File No. S7-3-99 RIN 3235-AH62 International Disclosure Standards 

 Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission

 Action: Final rule

 Summary: The Securities and Exchange Commission is adopting reviseddisclosure requirements for foreign private issuers to conform to theinternational disclosure standards endorsed by the International Organization ofSecurities Commissions in September 1998. The international disclosure standardswill replace most of the non-financial statement disclosure requirements of Form20-F, the basic disclosure document for foreign private issuers. We are revisingthe registration statements used by foreign private issuers under the SecuritiesAct of 1933 to reflect the changes in Form 20-F. We also are revising thedefinition of "foreign private issuer" to give clearer guidance on howforeign companies should determine whether their shareholders are U.S.residents.

 Dates: 

 Effective Date: September 30, 2000.

 Compliance Dates: 

 

 

Registrants must comply with the revisions to Form 20-F for annual or transition reports on that form that are filed with respect to fiscal years ending on or after September 30, 2000. 

 

Registrants eligible to incorporate information from a Form 20-F annual report must comply with the revisions to Forms F-2 and F-3 and to Form F-4 for registration statements and post-effective amendments on those forms filed for the first time after the registrant is required to file its first annual report on amended Form 20-F. 

 

A registrant voluntarily may comply with any of the revised forms any time after these amendments become effective, but prior to the compliance date for that form. 

 For Further Information Contact: Sandra Folsom Kinsey, SeniorInternational Counsel, or Rani Doyle, Special Counsel, in the Office ofInternational Corporate Finance, Division of Corporation Finance at (202)942-2990.

 Supplementary Information: We are adopting amendments to Form 20-F <sup> 1 </sup>under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. <sup> 2 </sup>As part of those amendments, we are deleting Rule 3-19 under Regulation S-X. <sup> 3 </sup>We are adopting amendments to Rule 3-20 under Regulation S-X, <sup> 4 </sup>Items 402, 404, 512, and 601 of Regulation S-K, <sup> 5 </sup>Rules 175, 434 and 463 of Regulation C, <sup> 6 </sup>Forms F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-6 and S-11 <sup> 7 </sup>underthe Securities Act of 1933, <sup> 8 </sup>Exchange Act Rules 3b-6, 13a-10 and 15d-10, <sup> 9 </sup>and Rule 0-11 under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 <sup> 10 </sup>to conform references to the items in Form 20-F that are being revised inconnection with the amendments to Form 20-F. We are adopting amendments to Rules3-01, 3-02 and 3-12 under Regulation S-X <sup> 11 </sup>and to Item 310 of Regulation S-B <sup> 12 </sup>to eliminate references to Rule 3-19. We also are revising the definition offoreign private issuer in Securities Act Rule 405 <sup> 13 </sup>and Exchange Act Rule 3b-4. <sup> 14 </sup>

<END HEADER>

<h>I. Executive Summary </h>

Many of our initiatives for foreign issuers have had the goal of reducingbarriers to cross-border offerings and listings in the United States, whilepreserving or enhancing existing investor protections. In addition to our owninitiatives, we, as a member of the International Organization of SecuritiesCommissions, referred to as IOSCO, have participated in internationalinitiatives intended to facilitate the cross-border flow of securities andcapital by promoting the use of a single disclosure document that would beaccepted in multiple jurisdictions. In 1998, IOSCO endorsed a core set ofdisclosure standards for the non-financial statement portions of a disclosuredocument, and encouraged its members to take whatever steps would be necessaryin their own jurisdictions to accept disclosure documents prepared in accordancewith those standards. <sup> 15 </sup>

We believe IOSCO's disclosure standards represent a strong internationalconsensus on fundamental disclosure topics, and that they can be used to produceoffering and listing documents that will contain the same high level ofinformation we traditionally have required. Today we are revising our existingforeign issuer integrated disclosure system to incorporate fully theinternational disclosure standards. We are adopting the revisions to our foreignintegrated disclosure system essentially as proposed, <sup> 16 </sup>with a few changes prompted by the suggestions of commenters. The internationaldisclosure standards replace most, but not all, of the previous requirements ofForm 20-F, the combined registration and annual report form for foreign privateissuers under the Exchange Act.

We also are revising the definition of "foreign private issuer"found in the rules under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, to base thedefinition more closely on the percentage of securities beneficially owned byU.S. residents. <sup> 17 </sup> Inresponse to concerns raised by commenters, we have modified the proposeddefinition to give issuers clearer guidance on how to calculate the amount oftheir voting securities held by U.S. residents.<h>II. Background Of Proposals And Commenters' ConcernsA. Background </h><h>A. Background </h>

As noted in the Proposing Release, we historically have sought to balance theinformation needs of investors with the public interest served by opportunitiesto invest in a variety of securities, including foreign securities. <sup> 18 </sup>Technological advances have made it easier than ever for investors to learnabout and invest in foreign companies. Because of the increasing flow of capitalacross borders, we and other securities regulators around the world have aninterest in ensuring that a high level of information is available to investorsin all markets. For this reason, we have been actively involved in IOSCO'sefforts to develop a set of high quality international disclosure standards thatcould be used in cross-border offerings and listings. We support internationalinitiatives that raise the level and quality of information available toinvestors, facilitate the cross-border flow of capital and reduce the regulatoryburdens on foreign issuers, if those initiatives do so in a manner that isconsistent with our mandate to protect investors. We believe the internationaldisclosure standards endorsed by IOSCO achieve those goals and that the best wayto promote use of the standards is to incorporate them fully into our existingforeign issuer integrated disclosure system. <sup> 19 </sup><h>B. Comments Regarding International Disclosure Standards </h>

We received fifteen comment letters on the Proposing Release. <sup> 20 </sup>All of the comment letters expressed support for increasing internationalharmonization of disclosure standards and many expressed support for theproposed amendments. The letters from organizations representing users of issuerinformation, such as analysts and institutional investors, were particularlysupportive. These commenters viewed the proposal as a means for promotingharmonization and improving comparability, without compromising the level ofinformation provided by foreign registrants. Several commenters who expressedsupport for international harmonization of disclosure standards placed evengreater importance on achieving harmonization in the area of internationalaccounting standards. As we noted in the Proposing Release, the development ofinternational accounting standards currently is the subject of a separateproject by IOSCO. <sup> 21 </sup> Someof the commenters had helpful suggestions for incorporating the internationaldisclosure standards into our foreign integrated disclosure system and forclarifying the instructions to Form 20-F, and we have adopted many of thesesuggestions in the final amendments.

A few commenters urged us to evaluate the extent to which other jurisdictionsaccept the international disclosure standards before we take steps to revise ourrules. They suggested that the international disclosure standards be availableas an optional, alternative disclosure system, rather than being mandatory forall foreign registrants. <sup> 22 </sup>These and other commenters tended to view the proposed amendments to Form 20-Fas significantly increasing the disclosure burden for foreign registrants, andthey predicted that imposing these requirements would deter foreign issuers fromoffering securities or listing in the United States. One commenter suggestedthat the revisions would penalize foreign registrants who had entered the U.S.market under the prior rules, and proposed that the over 1,100 reporting foreignissuers be "grandfathered" and allowed to continue using thedisclosure standards in effect before these amendments.

As noted in the Proposing Release, we do not view the amendments to theforeign integrated disclosure system as resulting in a significant increase inthe information foreign issuers must disclose. <sup> 23 </sup>In the few cases where the international disclosure standards ask forinformation not previously required by Form 20-F, we understand that theinformation is required under the domestic disclosure requirements in many otherjurisdictions. <sup> 24 </sup> Much ofthe information that is new to Form 20-F's disclosure requirements, therefore,is likely to be disclosed routinely by companies in countries outside the UnitedStates. In some cases, companies already may provide information required underthe amendments to Form 20-F because of our general requirement to provideadditional material information. <sup> 25 </sup>

In some cases, changes in the wording of requirements may create theimpression that different or additional disclosure is required. We understandthat changes in wording may create uncertainty among practitioners who arefamiliar with the prior phrasing and are unsure how to interpret differentexpressions of what is intended to be essentially the same requirement. Onecommenter urged us to identify disclosure requirements that use differentwording but that are not intended to impose different substantive disclosurerequirements. Although it is not possible to identify every example, we havetried to bear that concern in mind in our more detailed explanation of theamendments we are adopting today.

With respect to the suggestion that we delay adopting the internationaldisclosure standards until we see how widely they are accepted, or that weimplement them on a voluntary basis, we do not believe that those approacheswould achieve our goal of promoting regulatory harmonization at a high level ofdisclosure. <sup> 26 </sup> Weunderstand that some of the more developed capital markets represented in IOSCOeither have agreed to accept, or are planning to accept, disclosure documentsprepared using the international disclosure standards in cross-border offeringsand listings. For example, the London Stock Exchange has advised us that itcurrently would accept disclosure documents based on the internationaldisclosure standards, and, as part of its annual revision of its listing rules,it will be codifying that position in its rules. Some IOSCO jurisdictions haveadopted the standards for domestic purposes; we understand that is the case inArgentina, Italy and Mexico. We think that by moving quickly to incorporate theinternational disclosure standards into our foreign registration system, wedemonstrate our strong support for high quality international standards andencourage other jurisdictions to follow suit. As one of the largest capitalmarkets, we believe our support is important for widespread acceptance andimplementation of the standards.

In the Proposing Release we explained that we had considered but rejected thealternative of a two-tiered registration system for foreign issuers. We continueto believe that any elective approach would add unnecessary complexity to ourregistration system, when our preference is for measures that promote regulatorysimplification. For the same reason – and because, as explained above, we donot view the international disclosure standards as imposing a significantadditional disclosure burden – we do not plan to "grandfather" theexisting foreign reporting companies.

We believe the lengthy effective dates for the revised rules and forms willallow time to confirm that there is international support for the standards. Thedelayed effective dates also provide a transition period that should beparticularly helpful for registrants adapting to a new disclosure form. Forexample, as explained later in this release, issuers filing registrationstatements on Form 20-F or Form F-1 will not use the revised forms untilSeptember 30, 2000, and repeat issuers filing registration statements on FormsF-2, F-3 or F-4 will have an even longer transition period. Annual reports onrevised Form 20-F will not be due until March 31, 2001 at the earliest, forthose companies with September 30 fiscal year ends. Companies with December 31fiscal year ends will not be required to file an annual report on revised Form20-F until June 30, 2001, almost two years from the date of this release.<h>C. Comments Regarding Elimination of Rule 3-19 </h>

As we explained in the Proposing Release, we are eliminating Rule 3-19 ofRegulation S-X, which specifies the content, age and other requirements forforeign issuer financial statements, because the requirements of the rule areaddressed in new Item 8 of Form 20-F. The only substantive change relates to thepermitted age of financial statements. Item 8 of Form 20-F requires that auditedfinancial statements be no older than 15 months at "the time of theoffering or listing," which means the effective date of the registrationstatement, rather than the 18 months permitted under Rule 3-19. In the case ofthe issuer's initial public offering, the audited financial statements also mustbe as of a date not older than 12 months at the time the offering document isfiled. This stricter rule for initial public offerings does not apply to foreignissuers offering securities in the United States for the first time if theyalready are public in their home country. <sup> 27 </sup>Item 8 also provides that if the date of a registration statement is more thannine months after the end of the issuer's last fiscal year, the registrationstatement must contain interim financial statements, including U.S. GAAPinformation, covering at least the first six months of the issuer's fiscal year.This information may be unaudited.

Some commenters pointed out that business history, market factors andindustry practices often cause foreign issuers to prepare financial statementsthat are more current than required. These commenters did not believe theproposal to shorten the age of financial statements requirement would havesignificant practical effect on many issuers. One commenter approved ofrequiring more current financial information and urged us to consideraccelerating further the filing deadlines for annual reports of foreignregistrants. On the other hand, several commenters expressed the view that theproposed change would unduly burden foreign issuers. These commenters pointedout that foreign issuers often need additional time to prepare a reconciliationto U.S. GAAP after they have finished preparing their primary financialstatements.

We believe that the 15-month audited financial statement requirement is inline with the requirements in other countries and is not an undue burden on acompany seeking to offer securities in the United States. In most cases,companies have the ability to control the timing of their offerings so as toreduce the impact of this shorter age requirement. We believe the 15-monthperiod is sufficient time to prepare a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP along withthe financial statements. We also hesitate to factor in extra time for a companyto prepare a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, because this requirement affectscompanies in different ways. Whether or not there are any reconciling items tobe reported – and the number and extent of those items – depends, among otherthings, on a company's business activities during the period covered by thefinancial statements, on how similar the accounting standards used in preparingthe primary financial statements are to U.S. GAAP, and on the way in which thecompany has chosen to apply those accounting standards in preparing its primaryfinancial statements. For some companies, the burden is not significant.

Some commenters argued that the "blackout" period resulting fromthe new age of financial statements requirements and the current six-month duedate for annual reports on Form 20-F would pose a particular hardship forissuers who are in the market more or less continuously, as in the case ofrights offerings, dividend or interest reinvestment plans, and offerings ofsecurities upon conversion or exercise of outstanding securities. We alreadyhave distinguished these types of offerings in certain respects, such as bypermitting the financial statements in prospectuses for these types of offeringsto be reconciled to U.S. GAAP in accordance with Item 17, rather than Item 18,of Form 20-F. Because the blackout period may be particularly disruptive forthese types of offerings, we have amended the instructions to Item 8.A.5 toreplace the 15-month requirement for these types of offerings with an 18-monthrequirement and to replace the nine-month interim financial statementsrequirement with a 12-month requirement, which mirror the previous requirementsfor those types of offerings. We expect to reconsider this accommodation in thefuture, however, and may propose reducing the permitted age of financialstatements for these types of offerings based on a review of its operation inpractice or a possible change in the due date for annual reports. <sup> 28 </sup><h>D. Specific Changes to Registration and Report Forms </h>

Form 20-F is used as an initial registration statement under the Exchange Actand as an annual report form for foreign private issuers required to file annualreports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The amendments toForm 20-F adopted today replace prior Items 1 - 14 of Form 20-F, excluding Item9A, with ten new items that track the wording of the IOSCO disclosure standards.The item previously designated as Item 9A, Quantitative and QualitativeDisclosures about Market Risk, of Form 20-F is retained and renumbered as Item11. The items previously designated as Item 15, Defaults Upon Senior Securities,and Item 16, Changes in Securities and Changes in Security for RegisteredSecurities, of Form 20-F also are retained and renumbered as Items 12 and 13,and the wording has been revised to reflect "plain English" draftingprinciples. These two items continue to apply only when Form 20-F is used as anannual report form.

Items 17 and 18 of Form 20-F are retained in substance and are notrenumbered; these items explain the financial statement requirements forregistration statements and reports and the different types of reconciliation toU.S. GAAP that must be provided by issuers who prepare financial statementsusing accounting principles other than U.S. GAAP. As noted in the ProposingRelease, the text of old Item 18 was largely the same as the text of old Item17; our revisions to Item 18 eliminate the redundant text and highlight thedifferences, but are not intended to change any substantive requirements of thatItem.

The amendments adopted today also bring the exhibit requirements for foreignissuers more in line with the exhibits required for domestic issuers filing aregistration statement on Form 10 or an annual report on Form 10-K. The"Appendix A to Item 2(b) – Oil and Gas" is amended only to correctitem references; no substantive changes were made. Corresponding changes weremade in the Securities Act registration statement forms that refer to Form 20-F.

Several commenters made helpful suggestions for clarifying the instructionsto the ten items of the international disclosure standards or for adapting themto our existing integrated disclosure system. The ten core items are describedbelow, together with an explanation of some of the changes from the ProposingRelease. As noted, most of the ten items have been adopted as proposed.

 Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors . Severalcommenters noted that the terms "principal bankers and legal advisors"and "legal advisors to the issue" may be confusing or raise liabilityissues in the United States. While these terms and the term "sponsor"are commonly used and well understood in some countries, they may not be used inother jurisdictions. We have revised the instructions to this item to clarifythat these individuals or entities only need be identified if the issuer isrequired to identify them in other jurisdictions.

 Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable . One commenter notedthat the timetable for a typical U.S. offering by a foreign private issuer wouldbe very dependent on market conditions and other unpredictable factors. We wouldexpect that in cases such as a typical, U.S.-style, firm-commitment underwrittenoffering, the timetable disclosure would be very brief and would likely focusmore on the sequence of events than on precise dates. In other cases, such asofferings involving a complex corporate restructuring, we expect that thetimetable would provide more detail and likely would include anticipated datesor elapsed periods of time for major events.

 Item 3. Key Information . This item includes requirements for selectedfinancial data, exchange rate information, the reasons for the offer and theexpected use of proceeds, and information about risk factors. With respect tothe Item 3.B requirement for a statement of capitalization and indebtedness, wehave amended the proposed instructions to clarify that this statement is notrequired in annual reports, in line with current disclosure practice, and alsoto provide guidance on complying with the requirement in the case of offeringsunder shelf registration statements. With respect to the requirement forinformation on the reason for the offer and use of proceeds, found in Item 3.C,we view this item as calling for the same type of information that U.S.companies provide in response to Item 504 of Regulation S-K. With respect toItem 3.D, risk factors, one commenter suggested that attempting to limit riskfactor disclosure in annual reports to "the most significant riskfactors" was confusing and unnecessary. We agree that, in view of ourrecent "plain English" initiative and its emphasis on avoidingboilerplate risk factors, any listing of risk factors – whether in aregistration statement or an annual report – should focus on the mostsignificant risk factors as they apply to the issuer and its operations. Anexplicit instruction would be redundant and may create confusion. Accordingly,we have deleted this instruction.

 Item 4. Information on the Company . This item includes requirementsfor a description of the issuer's business and properties. To the extent segmentinformation is required, this item states that information may be presented onthe same basis as that used to determine the company's business segments underthe body of accounting principles used in preparing the financial statements.This statement is intended to refer to the accounting principles used inpreparing the primary financial statements, not those used in preparing anyrequired U.S. GAAP reconciliation. One commenter suggested that we continue toinclude the Form 20-F instructions regarding the necessity of complying withapplicable Industry Guides and, for issuers in extractive industries, the needto name any independent consultants who have prepared or reviewed estimates ofreserves. Following this suggestion, we have revised the instructions to Item 4to reflect our existing instructions in this area.

 Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects . This itemcorresponds to the current requirement for management's discussion and analysisof financial condition and results of operations. We interpret the requirementsof this item as being essentially the same as those of old Item 9 of Form 20-F.We have added an instruction to clarify that, as was the case under old Item 9,this section of the registration statement or report should discuss any aspectof the U.S. GAAP reconciliation and U.S. GAAP differences that the registrantbelieves is necessary for an understanding of the financial statements as awhole. In response to comments asking us to clarify when information must beprovided with respect to inflation rates and the effects of hyperinflation, wehave added an instruction to provide additional guidance.

 Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees . This item includesrequirements relating to compensation and shareholdings for directors andmanagement. The definition of the term "administrative, supervisory ormanagement bodies" in Form 20-F's Glossary states that this termcorresponds to "executive officers" in the United States. Twocommenters suggested that this attempt at clarification could create confusion,because in some countries the members of these bodies may not perform the samefunctions as executive officers in U.S. companies. In response to this concern,we have deleted the clarification and added an instruction stating that themeaning of these terms will depend on the functions performed.

Several commenters noted that Item 6 requires disclosure of the amount ofshares held by individual directors and management, without the alternativepreviously available under old Item 5 of Form 20-F of providing this informationon an aggregate basis. We believe that the international disclosure standardsreflect a consensus that the individual share ownership of management providesimportant information for investors. However, we have added an instructionindicating that if an individual member of management beneficially owns lessthan 1% of the outstanding securities, that fact may be stated instead ofproviding the specific number of shares that individual beneficially owns, aslong as the specific number of shares is not otherwise disclosed or required tobe disclosed in a non-U.S. jurisdiction. This mirrors the approach taken in Item403 of Regulation S-K for U.S. issuers.

 Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions . This itemrequires disclosure of information about major shareholders and others thatcontrol or may control the company, as well as disclosure of related partytransactions. At the request of one commenter, we have added an instructionsimilar to Instruction 3 to Item 404(c) of Regulation S-K, to clarify the extentto which banks and other lending institutions must disclose loans made in theordinary course of business. Item 7 reduces the Form 20-F threshold fordisclosure of beneficial ownership from 10% to 5%, and the commenters thatmentioned this change generally expressed support.

 Item 8. Financial Information . This item contains requirementsrelating to the presentation of financial statements, requirements thatpreviously were set forth in Rule 3-19 of Regulation S-X, and requirementsrelating to legal proceedings. The only change we are making to Regulation S-Xis the elimination of Rule 3-19; the remaining items of Regulation S-X continueto apply to registration statements and reports filed by foreign private issuersto the same extent they did before these amendments to Form 20-F were adopted.With respect to the provisions of Item 8.A.5 that relate to financialinformation published by the issuer that is more current than the financialstatements required in the filing, some commenters expressed concern that theseprovisions expand on the requirements of Rule 3-19(f) or change thereconciliation requirement for this type of information. This was not theintention, and we have revised the instructions in an attempt to eliminate anyconfusion on this point. <sup> 29 </sup>We also have added an instruction clarifying that in order to comply with therequirement for three years of audited financial statements, the issuer is notrequired to provide a balance sheet for the earliest of these periods if it isnot required in a jurisdiction outside the United States.

Two commenters asked if the statement in the Item 8 instructions and in theGeneral Instructions, that financial statements must be audited in accordancewith U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, was intended to change thestaff's practice of accepting auditor's reports that state that the audit wasconducted in accordance with local auditing standards that are"substantially similar" or "similar in all materialrespects" to U.S. GAAS. As one commenter noted, that practice was adoptedto accommodate audit report styles in different jurisdictions that differ fromthe audit report wording specified by U.S. GAAS. The practice was not intendedto relieve the auditor of the responsibility to perform all auditing proceduresnecessary under U.S. GAAS. We do not intend to change our practice of acceptingwording variations in audit reports to comply with local reporting formats. Inall other respects, however, in order to avoid ambiguity, the report must saythat the audit was performed in accordance with U.S. GAAS.

 Item 9. The Offer and Listing . This item includes requirements for adescription of the offering, including the plan of distribution, tradingmarkets, selling shareholders, dilution and expenses. Item 9.A requiresdisclosure of how the offering price was determined if there is no establishedmarket for the securities being offered. We view this requirement as beingequivalent to the requirement of Item 505 of Regulation S-K. One commenterpointed out that the requirement in Item 9.B.1 for the underwriters' addressescould create logistical problems in U.S.-style offerings where the syndicatemembers are not decided until final pricing. In those circumstances, however, anissuer may comply with this requirement by disclosing only the addresses of thelead underwriters, which should be known before pricing. Generally speaking, fora U.S.-style, firm commitment underwritten offering, we would expect that theresponses to Item 9.B, Plan of Distribution, would include much of the sameinformation provided in response to Item 508 of Regulation S-K, to the extentthat information is material to an investor's understanding of the offering.

 Item 10. Additional Information . This item includes requirements for,among other things, a description of the issuer's share capital, significantprovisions of its articles of incorporation and bylaws, its material contracts,and applicable taxes. One commenter suggested that certain requirements of Item10, specifically subsections 10.A (Share Capital), 10.E (Taxation) and 10.F(Dividends and Paying Agents), be limited to registration statements and annualreports relating only to equity securities, since that information isinapplicable to other types of securities, or would otherwise be disclosed inthe issuer's financial statements or in response to Item 10.B, Memorandum andArticles of Association. After considering this comment and the priorrequirements of Form 20-F, we agree that the information called for by Item 10.Aand 10.F is less pertinent to non-equity securities and to annual reports, andwe have amended the item to limit these requirements to registration statementsrelating to equity securities.<h>E. "Foreign Private Issuer" Definition </h>

We are adopting the proposed amendments to Rule 405 under the Securities Actand Rule 3b-4 under the Exchange Act, which contain the definition of"foreign private issuer,"<sup> </sup>essentially in the form proposed,with some additional clarification. The amendments, in effect, change the testof whether more than 50 percent of an issuer's outstanding voting securities areheld by residents of the United States from a record ownership test to one thatmore closely reflects the beneficial ownership of the issuer's securities. <sup> 30 </sup>As noted in the Proposing Release, we believe that the increased prevalence ofoffshore nominees and custodial accounts has made record ownership lessmeaningful for purposes of determining U.S. ownership. We believe a test basedmore closely on beneficial ownership gives a better picture of whether or not acompany incorporated outside the United States is entitled to the accommodationsavailable to foreign private issuers under the federal securities laws. Theownership test adopted today is based on the method of calculation used inExchange Act Rule 12g3-2(a), which follows the definition of "securitiesheld of record" in Rule 12g5-1, but requires the issuer to "lookthrough" the record ownership of brokers, dealers, banks or nomineesholding securities for the accounts of their customers to determine theresidency of those customers. Issuers also must take into account informationregarding U.S. ownership derived from beneficial ownership reports that areprovided to the issuer or filed publicly, as well as information that otherwiseis provided to the issuer. The reference to beneficial ownership reports is notlimited to reports filed with the Commission, since we understand thatbeneficial ownership of an issuer's securities may be required to be provided tothe issuer or disclosed publicly in other countries, as well as in the UnitedStates.

Several commenters suggested that these changes would create a substantialburden for companies that trade in many different markets, and that widely heldcompanies would have to devote significant effort and expense in determiningbeneficial ownership in many jurisdictions where the likelihood of finding U.S.owners is small. In order to address these concerns, we have limited theapplication of the "look through" provisions of Rule 12g3-2(a) tovoting securities held of record

 

 

in the United States, 

 

in the issuer's home jurisdiction, and 

 

in the primary trading market for the issuer's securities if different from the issuer's home jurisdiction. 

These jurisdictions should cover most of the trading volume for the issuer'ssecurities, and searches in these jurisdictions are likely to yield the greatestnumber of U.S. beneficial owners. This modification to the test should reducethe burden on foreign companies while still producing a reasonably accuratepicture of whether or not the company is a foreign private issuer.

Most commenters questioned the basis for our proposed rebuttable presumptionthat, if a foreign issuer's securities trade in the U.S. markets in the form ofAmerican Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, the shares deposited in the ADR programare held solely by U.S. residents. These commenters pointed out that, for anumber of reasons, non-U.S. investors may choose to hold securities in ADR form.Because it appears that issuers will not take advantage of the presumption andwill feel the need to query ADR depositaries regarding the owners of ADRs, wehave determined not to adopt the presumption.

Some commenters pointed out that it is not always possible for issuers toobtain information about separate customer accounts, as required by Rule12g3-2(a). Brokers, dealers, banks or other nominees may be unwilling or unableto provide information about their customer accounts. This problem is not uniqueto the foreign private issuer definition, however; the duty to inquire aboutseparate customer accounts already exists for issuers deciding whether thereporting exemption in Rule 12g3-2(a) is available. In the case of the foreignprivate issuer definition, the issuer would not be asking nominees to providethe number of U.S. shareholders or the names of those shareholders, but only thepercentage of the nominee's holdings of the issuer's securities that arerepresented by U.S. accounts. If after reasonable inquiry, however, the issueris unable to obtain information about the nominee's customer accounts, includingcases where the nominee's charge for supplying this information would beunreasonable, the issuer may rely on a presumption that the customer accountsare held in the nominee's principal place of business. We have revised theinstructions to the foreign private issuer definition to clarify this point.<h>III. Effective Dates And Transition Provisions </h>

The amendments to rules and forms adopted today become effective September30, 2000, with certain exceptions. In some cases, as explained below, the dateat which a registrant will have to comply with a revised form will depend onthat registrant's fiscal year end.

 

 Registration statements filed on Form F-1, Form F-4 or Form 20-F –Registrants must use revised Form F-1 and revised Form 20-F for registrationstatements first filed on or after September 30, 2000. <sup> 31 </sup>Registrants that are not eligible to incorporate Form F-4 information byreference to a previously filed annual report on Form 20-F also must use revisedForm F-4 for registration statements filed on or after September 30, 2000.

 

 

 Registration statements filed on Forms F-2 and F-3 and on Form F-4 if it permits information to be incorporated by reference – These forms permit a registrant to satisfy form requirements by incorporating information from an annual report on Form 20-F. Form F-4 also permits the registrant to incorporate information about the other party to a business combination by referring to that company's annual report. The revised Forms F-2, F-3 and F-4 do not provide for incorporation of information by reference to "old" Form 20-F. Accordingly, the revisions to Forms F-2 and F-3 will be effective for registration statements and post-effective amendments filed any time after a registrant is required to file its first annual report on revised Form 20-F. In cases where a Form F-4 permits information about either party to the business combination to be incorporated by reference to an annual report on Form 20-F, the revisions to Form F-4 will be effective for registration statements and post-effective amendments filed any time after the party whose information is being incorporated by reference is required to file its first annual report on Form 20-F. 

 

 Annual reports filed on Form 20-F – Revised Form 20-F must be used for annual or transition reports filed with respect to fiscal years ending on or after September 30, 2000. 

 

 Rule 3-19 – Rule 3-19 of Regulation S-X will no longer apply to registration statements filed on or after September 30, 2000 that are filed on Form F-1 or on a Form F-4 that permits incorporation of information by reference. A registrant may continue to rely on Rule 3-19 for registration statements filed on Forms F-2 and F-3, and on a Form F-4 that permits incorporation of information by reference, until the revisions to those forms take effect. 

The following information applies to situations that arise when registrantsmake the transition from the old version of a form to the revised version:

 

 Pre-effective amendments – If, on September 30, 2000, a foreign private issuer has on file at the Commission a registration statement on Form F-1, a Form F-4 that does not permit incorporation by reference or Form 20-F and that registration statement has not been declared effective, the issuer may continue to file pre-effective amendments to that registration statement after September 30, 2000 without modifying those pre-effective amendments to reflect the revisions. This position does not apply to pre-effective amendments to registration statements on Forms F-2, Form F-3 or a Form F-4 that permits incorporation by reference, because registrants will have a lengthy transition period and experience preparing an annual report on revised Form 20-F, before they have to comply with the revisions to those Securities Act registration statements. 

 

 Post-effective amendments – The revisions to registration statement forms adopted today apply to post-effective amendments filed on or after the effective date given above for a particular form if the post-effective amendment is to include the registrant's latest audited financial statements or to update the prospectus under Section 10(a)(3). <sup> 32 </sup> 

 

 Registration statements and post-effective amendments filed under Rules 462(b) and (c) – Registration statements and post-effective amendments filed under Rules 462(b) and (c) are effective upon filing with the Commission. These registration statements and amendments must comply with the registration statement revisions adopted today only if the registrant first filed the underlying registration statement on or after the effective date given above for a particular form. 

 

 Prospectus supplements – The revisions to registration statement forms adopted today apply to prospectus supplements filed on or after the effective date given above for a particular form. If an issuer filed a base prospectus under Rule 415(a)(1)(x) before it was required to comply with revised Form F-3, that base prospectus does not have to be amended, even though subsequent prospectus supplements must comply with the revised form. 

Registrants are encouraged to use the revised forms for registrationstatements and annual reports on a voluntary basis before the compliance datesdescribed above. A registrant that wishes to use revised Forms F-2, F-3 or F-4before it has filed its first annual report on revised Form 20-F may do so. Inthose cases, however, the registrant either will have to amend its previouslyfiled annual report to comply with the new disclosure requirements of Form 20-For provide within the body of the Securities Act registration statement theinformation it would otherwise incorporate from Form 20-F.<h>IV. Cost-Benefit Analysis </h>

The amendments update and simplify the disclosure requirements for foreignprivate issuers. We believe the amendments will make it easier for foreignprivate issuers to raise capital and list their securities in multiplejurisdictions, including the United States. In addition, as other jurisdictionsadopt or accept the international standards, U.S. issuers desiring to raisecapital in multiple foreign markets will enjoy the benefits of harmonization.

Foreign issuers seeking to raise capital or list securities in more than onejurisdiction often encounter differing, and in some cases conflicting,regulatory requirements. These regulatory hurdles may influence issuers'decisions about where to offer or list their securities. A primary goal of theamendments to Form 20-F is to encourage and facilitate the use of one disclosuredocument by issuers seeking to raise capital or list securities in multiplejurisdictions. The amendments provide the benefits of lowering regulatorybarriers to cross-border offerings and listings with the result of reducedregulatory costs and burdens. The amendments will bring us closer to the goal ofenabling issuers to prepare one basic disclosure document that will be acceptedin many jurisdictions. Although some tailoring of the disclosure document may berequired to satisfy specific national requirements, issuers and investors willbenefit from greater uniformity in the requirements for core disclosure topics.

The amendments impose some additional disclosure requirements on foreignprivate issuers. However, we believe that the benefits of the amendments – toissuers and investors – justify possible costs. As we stated in the proposingrelease, we believe the IOSCO standards incorporated into amended Form 20-F aregenerally comparable to the prior disclosure requirements of Form 20-F and thatforeign private issuers should not experience significantly increased compliancecosts. Some commenters, including attorneys in private practice informallycontacted by the staff of the Office of International Corporate Finance, haveconcurred with our view. They acknowledge that the disclosure requirements inamended Form 20-F are comparable to the Form's previous disclosure requirementsand would not, in practice, result in significant additional or quantifiablecompliance costs.

We recognize that shortening the age of financial statements requirement maypresent burdens for some foreign private issuers. We believe that thetransparency benefits to investors of the availability of more currentinformation justifies the potential burdens of the new requirements. Indeed,several commenters expressed their belief that the amendments will increasetransparency, ensure a high level of investor protection and enhance thecomparability of disclosures between foreign and domestic issuers. In addition,in conversations with practitioners, many indicated that they did not expect thenew Form 20-F requirements to impact their clients adversely, because the marketalready demands more current financial information from offerors than presentlyrequired. For these issuers, no new burden will exist. Moreover, in response toconcerns raised by some commenters, the final amendments relax the age offinancial statement requirements for continuous offerings, diminishing theburdens potentially associated with the new timing requirements. Furthermore, inmany offerings, issuers have flexibility to determine the timing of theirfilings and may be able to plan their offerings to accommodate the requirements.Accordingly, the Commission does not believe that foreign private issuers shouldexperience a significant quantifiable burden in complying with the amendments.

There are other reasons to conclude that the benefits of the amendments,which will accrue both to investors and to issuers, will justify the costs.First, the purpose of the amendments is to facilitate cross-border offerings andlistings. We believe the amendments will encourage other jurisdictions toendorse or adopt the IOSCO standards, and widespread acceptance of the standardswill further reduce compliance burdens for foreign issuers, as well as for U.S.issuers seeking capital abroad.

Second, we, as well as some commenters, expect additional compliance costswill be mitigated because a significant number of foreign private issuersalready comply, for various reasons, with the additional disclosure requirementsin the amended Form. For instance:

 

 

Foreign issuers often provide the additional information that is required by the amended Form in order to successfully market their securities or attract investors, or in response to our general materiality requirements. 

 

As one commenter noted, some of the new requirements, including those related to age of financial statements, 5% beneficial ownership disclosure, and expanded compensation-related disclosure, are equivalent or comparable to disclosure requirements that currently are or will soon be mandated in many European jurisdictions. 

 

Other countries, such as Argentina, Italy and Mexico, are adopting IOSCO's international disclosure standards for their domestic issuer disclosure requirements. As regulators move further in the direction of harmonized standards, we expect more jurisdictions to endorse and more foreign issuers to comply with the IOSCO standards. 

Third, not all of the disclosure requirements of the amended Form will applyto all foreign private issuers; some requirements are based, as with old Form20-F, on foreign requirements. In these instances, disclosure will not berequired under the amended Form unless a foreign private issuer is required todisclose information in another jurisdiction or makes the requested informationpublic on a voluntary basis.

Finally, the amendments are scheduled to take effect gradually, beginningmore than one year from adoption, at the earliest. This schedule will giveforeign private issuers a significant amount of time to familiarize themselveswith the amendments and to set up cost-effective procedures, as necessary, tocomply with the amendments. We believe this will allow foreign issuers to planand minimize any compliance costs.

Some commenters expressed concern that the amendments to change thedefinition of "foreign private issuer" under the Exchange Act and theSecurities Act would impose significant compliance costs. We believe the newrequirements are beneficial to the integrity of our regulatory system, whichprovides accommodations for foreign issuers because of the unique difficultiesthey face in entering a foreign regulatory regime. The amendments provide a moreaccurate portrayal of whether a company incorporated outside the United Statesis the type of entity for whom the special rules and forms for foreign privateissuers were intended.

In response to concerns expressed by commenters about the costs associatedwith the amendments, we have determined to adopt a more focused "lookthrough" requirement that will reduce issuer costs and capture most U.S.ownership information. We believe that the benefits of accurate issuercategorization justify the additional costs a company incorporated outside theUnited States may bear in determining whether it is entitled to theaccommodations available to foreign private issuers.

In sum, we expect the amendments to revise Form 20-F, accelerate the age offinancial statements requirements, and revise the definition of foreign privateissuers, will impose transitional costs on foreign private issuers, but after atransitional period, we believe those costs will become much less significant.We believe those costs are justified in light of the benefits the amendmentswill provide to issuers, investors and the markets.

 V. Consideration Of Burdens On Competition, And Promotion Of Efficiency,Competition And Capital Formation 

Form 20-F is used by foreign private issuers as an initial registrationstatement and as an annual report form under the Exchange Act. The amendments toForm 20-F and related forms and rules should encourage and facilitate the use ofone disclosure document that would meet the regulatory requirements of multiplejurisdictions. The Commission sought but did not receive any comments related towhether the amendments would promote efficiency, competition or capitalformation, or have anti-competitive effects. Under Section 2(b) of theSecurities Act and 3(f) of the Exchange Act, the Commission considered whetherthe amendments would promote competition, cross-border capital formation, andefficiency in multi-jurisdictional offerings and listings. Moreover, theamendments adopted today reflect the Commission's consideration, as required bySection 23(a) of the Exchange Act, of the impact the amendments may have oncompetition. The amendments are designed to harmonize disclosure requirementsfor foreign issuers, without imposing any negative impact on U.S. businesses.Therefore, the Commission believes that any burden on competition imposed by theamendments is necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of theExchange Act.<h>VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification </h>

Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (15 U.S.C. 605(b)), theChairman of the Commission certified at the proposal stage that the revisions torules and forms will not have a significant impact on a substantial number ofsmall entities. We received no comments specifically addressing thecertification. A copy of the certification was attached as Appendix A to theProposing Release.<h>VII. Paperwork Reduction Act </h>

The amendments affect Form 20-F, which contains "collection ofinformation requirements" within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Actof 1995. <sup> 33 </sup> The title forthe collection of information is "Form 20-F." Providing theinformation required by Form 20-F is mandatory for foreign private issuersrequired to register securities or offerings with the Commission, and theinformation collected will not be kept confidential.

The amendments will affect changes to collections of information within thePaperwork Reduction Act. The collections of information would be required byamended Form 20-F. Most of the disclosure requirements of amended Form 20-Fclosely correspond to the Form's previous disclosure requirements. The newrequirements of the amended Form are based on common national requirements inother countries, as identified by IOSCO. For these reasons, we do not expectfilers of the amended Form 20-F to experience a long-term quantifiable change intheir information collection burdens. In the short term, we expect that foreignprivate issuers will spend time reviewing Form 20-F to become familiar with itsamended format and requirements, and as necessary, implement measures to complywith additional disclosure requirements. The adopted rule is substantiallysimilar to the proposed rules with respect to the collection of informationrequirements. Changes from the proposed Form were undertaken in response tocomment letters and principally are clarifications.

The information collection burden is not readily quantifiable for severalreasons:

 

 

some of the new disclosure requirements are not triggered unless the Form 20-F filer has a disclosure obligation under foreign law; 

 

different issuers will need more or less time to become familiar with the amendments; 

 

some foreign private issuers already disclose voluntarily the information that is required by the amendments. 

Once all Form 20-F filers familiarize themselves with the amended Form, webelieve the burden hours will revert to the current information collectionburden estimate. In the longer term, as more jurisdictions endorse and acceptthe IOSCO standards, we believe that the burden estimate may decrease as thedifferences between U.S. standards and foreign standards are reduced.

We determined the number of burden hours by estimating the number of hours itwould take for an average foreign private issuer to: (1) become familiar withthe amendments; (2) make an initial filing on amended Form 20-F and/or relatedamended Securities Act forms; and (3), file subsequent registration statementsor reports using amended Form 20-F standards. It is our estimate that theaverage foreign private issuer initially would need 20 hours to understand theamendments and another 10 to implement them. We believe this 30 hour burden willdecrease significantly after the first time a foreign private issuer complieswith the amendments.

In addition to the transition burden, the average foreign private issuerwould need 451 hours annually to file an amended Form 20-F or amended SecuritiesAct form that incorporated Form 20-F standards. To reach this number, we reliedon the total annual burden hour estimate submitted in connection with Form 20-Fto the Office of Management and Budget, referred to as OMB, in 1996. Theresulting estimate is significantly less than the 1,995 burden hours set forthin the Proposing Release for these amendments, which upon further review, wedetermined was inaccurate. We solicited but did not receive any comments on thisestimate. In subsequent years, we expect the annual burden to revert to 451hours per response. We estimate that there would be 1,007 respondents to Form20-F. Each respondent would respond once per year.

The Commission submitted the proposed revisions to those rules and forms toOMB for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11. Anagency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, acollection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB controlnumber. The OMB control number is 3235-0288. The revised forms and regulationsset forth the disclosures that the Commission will require foreign privateissuers to make to the public about themselves and their securities offerings.Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to thecollection of information should be in writing, refer to File No. S7-3-99, andbe submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Records Management,Office of Filings and Information Services.<h>VIII. Statutory Basis And Text Of Amendments </h>

<END MAIN TEXT>

1 17 CFR 249.220f ("Form 20-F").

2 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq . (the"Exchange Act").

3 17 CFR 210.3-19.

4 17 CFR 210.3-20.

5 17 CFR 229.402, 17 CFR 229.404, 17 CFR 229.512and 17 CFR 229.601.

6 17 CFR 230.175, 17 CFR 230.434 and 17 CFR230.463.

7 See 17 CFR 239.31, 17 CFR 239.32, 17CFR 239.33, 17 CFR 239.34, 17 CFR 239.36 and 17 CFR 239.18.

8 15 U.S.C. 77a et seq . (the"Securities Act").

9 17 CFR 240.3b-6, 17 CFR 240.13a-10 and 17 CFR240.15d-10.

10 17 CFR 260.0-11.

11 17 CFR 210.3-01, 17 CFR 210.3-02, and 17 CFR210.3-12.

12 17 CFR 228.310.

13 17 CFR 230.405.

14 17 CFR 240.3b-4.

15 You can find the full text of the standardsendorsed by IOSCO on the IOSCO Internet Web site .

16 Securities Act Release No. 7637 (Feb. 2,1999) [64 FR 6261] (the "Proposing Release").

17 See Securities Act Rule 405, 17 CFR230.405, and Exchange Act Rule 3b-4, 17 CFR 240.3b-4.

18 Securities Act Release No. 6360 (Nov. 20,1981) [46 FR 58511].

19 As noted in the Proposing Release, we havepreserved the original wording of the international disclosure standards to themaximum extent possible. We think this approach will promote consistent use ofthe standards and will help foreign issuers recognize them as a national versionof the IOSCO standards accepted in other jurisdictions. Upon adoption, theinternational disclosure standards become part of the U.S. federal securitieslaws, as we noted in the Proposing Release. The standards have not been adoptedon a mutual recognition basis with any other jurisdiction, and there will be nochange in our current procedures and practices for reviewing and commenting onfiled documents.

20 You may read and copy the comment lettersand the staff's summary of these letters in our Public Reference Room at 450Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Ask for File No. S7-3-99. You mayview the comment letters that were submitted by electronic mail at theCommission's web site: www.sec.gov.

21 See Proposing Release at n. 24.

22 One commenter held the opposite view. Seethe comment letter, dated June 5, 1999, submitted by the Federation of EuropeanStock Exchanges, which stated that "[t]he Federation strongly supports therejection of the alternative of creating a two-tiered system of disclosurerequirements. The confusion created by an alternative approach would endangerthe very essence of the proposals by IOSCO."

23 Several commenters supported this view,noting in one case that "while the format of the IOSCO disclosure standardsdiffers somewhat from the current format of Form 20-F, the overall level ofdisclosure required is not significantly different." See Rogers & Wellsclient memorandum, dated February 1999, submitted as a comment letter. Anothercommenter expressed the view that "New Form 20-F is generally comparable inquality to the disclosure requirements currently applicable to foreign privateissuers." See Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton comment letter, datedMay 18, 1999.

24 In its comment letter dated June 15, 1999,the Federation of European Stock Exchanges expressed its members' support forthe proposal and for efforts to create an "international passport"that would reduce the burden of different regulatory requirements whilepreserving investor protection and promoting transparency. In explaining itssupport, the Federation noted that some of the requirements in amended Form 20-Fare equivalent to current and planned disclosure requirements for most Europeancountries.

25 17 CFR 230.408 and 17 CFR 240.12b-20.

26 The Federation of European Stock Exchangesspecifically noted that maintaining alternative disclosure standards would beinconsistent with the concept of regulatory simplification and the goals of theamendments. See Federation of European Stock Exchanges letter dated June 15,1999.

27 Since many foreign issuers already arepublic companies when they file their first registration statement in the UnitedStates, we believe the 12-month rule will apply only in very limitedcircumstances. Even in those circumstances, we will consider waiving therequirement if the issuer represents adequately to the staff that nojurisdiction outside the United States imposes the 12-month requirement on theregistrant's offering and that complying with the requirement is impracticableor presents undue hardship. If we waive the 12-month requirement, issuers wouldbe instructed to comply with the 15-month age of financial statement requirementof Item 8.A.

28 See Section XI.A.2 of Securities Act ReleaseNo. 7606A (Nov. 13, 1998) [63 FR 67174]. In the Securities Act reform release weproposed accelerating the due date for Form 20-F annual reports to five monthsafter the close of the issuer's fiscal year and solicited comment on whether thedue date should be accelerated to four months.

29 There also is no change in thereconciliation requirement for interim information presented in selectedfinancial data.

30 There are two parts to the foreign privateissuer definition. The first part is based on ownership of the issuer'ssecurities. The second part of the definition is based on whether (a) a majorityof the issuer's executive officers or directors are U.S. citizens or residents,(b) over 50% of its assets are within the United States, or (c) its business isadministered principally in the United States. Any one of these three factors,together with majority U.S. ownership, will mean the issuer fails to satisfy theforeign private issuer definition.

31 Forms F-6 and S-11 under the Securities Actwere revised to conform cross-references to Form 20-F. The changes to theseforms also are effective for forms first filed on or after September 30, 2000.

32 15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3).

33 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .