https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/33-7497.txt

	I.0.0.0: I. Executive Summary

	II.0.0.0: II. Lessons From the Plain English Pilot Program

	III.0.0.0: III. Rules on How to Prepare Prospectuses

		III.A.0.0: A. Plain English Rule - Rule 421(d)

		III.B.0.0: B. Clear, Concise, and Understandable Prospectuses - Rule 421(b)

		III.C.0.0: C. Comments on Proposed Amendments to Rule 421(b) and Rule 421(d)

	IV.0.0.0: IV. Revisions to Regulations S-K and S-B

		IV.A.0.0: A. Item 501 - Forepart of Registration Statement and Outside Front Cover Page of Prospectus<sup> 27 </sup>

		IV.B.0.0: B. Item 502 - Inside Front and Outside Back Cover Pages of Prospectus<sup> 30 </sup>

		IV.C.0.0: C. Item 503 - Summary Information, Risk Factors, and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges<sup> 32 </sup> 

			IV.C.1.0: 1. Summary Information

			IV.C.2.0: 2. Risk Factors

			IV.C.3.0: 3. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

	V.0.0.0: V. Plain English for Investment Companies

	VI.0.0.0: VI. Phase-In of the Plain English Rule and Other Requirements for Issuers Other Than Investment Companies

	VII.0.0.0: VII. Comments on the Plain English Proposals

		VII.A.0.0: A. Liability Concerns

		VII.B.0.0: B. Staff Plain English Review and Comment Process

		VII.C.0.0: C. Requests for Acceleration

	VIII.0.0.0: VIII. Cost-Benefit Analysis

	IX.0.0.0: IX. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

	X.0.0.0: X. Paperwork Reduction Act

	XI.0.0.0: XI. Statutory Authority



<END TABLE OF CONTENTS>

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

17 CFR Parts 228, 229, 230, 239 and 274

[Release Nos. 33-7497; 34-39593; IC-23011 International Series No. 1113; File No. S7-3-97]

RIN: 3235-AG88 Plain English Disclosure

AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission

ACTION: Final Rules

SUMMARY: We are adopting the plain English rule with some changes based on the comments we received and the lessons we learned from the plain English pilot participants. The rule requires issuers to write the cover page, summary, and risk factors section of prospectuses in plain English. We are changing the existing requirements for these sections to the extent they conflict with the plain English rule. We are also giving issuers more specific guidance on how to make the entire prospectus clear, concise, and understandable. We believe that using plain English in prospectuses will lead to a better informed securities market_a market in which investors can more easily understand the disclosure required by the federal securities laws.

DATES: Effective Date. October 1, 1998. Compliance Date. October 1, 1998. When we act on the amendments to the mutual fund disclosure requirements that we proposed in February 1997, we may change the date by which mutual funds must comply with these amendments.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann D. Wallace or Carolyn A. Miller at (202) 942-2980 or David Maltz at (202) 942-1921 in the Division of Corporation Finance. If your questions involve mutual funds, call Kathleen K. Clarke at (202) 942-0724 or Markian Melnyk at (202) 942-0592 in the Division of Investment Management. Direct your questions on the staff's plain English handbook to Nancy M. Smith at (202) 942-7040. 

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We are adopting amendments to Rules 421,<sup> 1 </sup> 461<sup> 2 </sup> and 481<sup> 3 </sup> of Regulation C<sup> 4 </sup> and Items 101,<sup> 5 </sup> 501,<sup> 6 </sup> 502,<sup> 7 </sup> 503,<sup> 8 </sup> and 508<sup> 9 </sup> of Regulations S-K<sup> 10 </sup> and S-B.<sup> 11 </sup> We are also adopting minor amendments to Forms S-2,<sup> 12 </sup> S-3,<sup> 13 </sup> S-4,<sup> 14 </sup> S-20,<sup> 15 </sup> F-2,<sup> 16 </sup> F-3,<sup> 17 </sup> F-4,<sup> 18 </sup> and N-2.<sup> 19 </sup>

Our Office of Investor Education and Assistance will, within the next six weeks, issue a final version of A Plain English Handbook: How to Create Clear SEC Disclosure Documents. The handbook will give techniques and tips on how to create plain English disclosure documents. We suggest you order a hard copy by calling 800-SEC-0330. Some of the handbook's graphic elements will not be available on the web version. A draft version is available now on our Internet site (http://www.sec.gov).

<END HEADER>

<h>I. Executive Summary</h>

Full and fair disclosure is one of the cornerstones of investor protection under the federal securities laws. If a prospectus fails to communicate information clearly, investors do not receive that basic protection. Yet, prospectuses today often use complex, legalistic language that is foreign to all but financial or legal experts. The proliferation of complex transactions and securities magnifies this problem. A major challenge facing the securities industry and its regulators is assuring that financial and business information reaches investors in a form they can read and understand.

In response to this challenge, we undertake today a sweeping revision of how issuers must disclose information to investors. This new package of rules will change the face of every prospectus used in registered public offerings of securities.<sup> 20 </sup> Prospectuses will be simpler, clearer, more useful, and we hope, more widely read.

First, the new rules require issuers to write and design the cover page, summary, and risk factors section of their prospectuses in plain English. Specifically, in these sections, issuers will have to use: short sentences; definite, concrete, everyday language; active voice; tabular presentation of complex information; no legal or business jargon; and no multiple negatives. Issuers will also have to design these sections to make them inviting to the reader. In response to comments, the new rules will not require issuers to limit the length of the summary, limit the number of risk factors, or prioritize risk factors.

Second, we are giving guidance to issuers on how to comply with the current rule that requires the entire prospectus to be clear, concise, and understandable. Our goal is to purge the entire document of legalese and repetition that blur important information investors need to know.

Also, our Office of Investor Education and Assistance is finalizing a handbook with practical tips on how to prepare plain English documents. This handbook explains how to apply plain English principles to disclosure documents.

To ensure a smooth transition, the plain English rule and the other changes adopted today will apply beginning October 1, 1998. We encourage all participants in securities offerings to start following these plain English principles now when writing their prospectuses. Our staff will continue its efforts to assist companies in drafting prospectuses in plain English. 

<h>II. Lessons From the Plain English Pilot Program</h>

To test plain English in disclosure documents, the Division of Corporation Finance started a pilot program in 1996 for public companies willing to file plain English documents under either the Securities Act of 1933<sup> 21 </sup> or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.<sup> 22 </sup> More than 75 companies have volunteered to participate in the pilot program. Many participants have prepared disclosure documents that will not be subject to the plain English rule, including proxy statements, footnotes to financial statements,<sup> 23 </sup> and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.<sup> 24 </sup>

We have included in Appendix B a list of pilot participants that filed plain English documents. These pilot participants produced examples of disclosure that is clear, well-written, and designed to increase investors' understanding.

Our experience with the pilot participants affirms our belief that preparing documents in plain English increases investors' understanding and helps them make informed investment decisions. The package of rules we are adopting, as well as the handbook, will enable issuers to improve dramatically the clarity of their disclosure documents. 

<h>III. Rules on How to Prepare Prospectuses</h>

<h>A. Plain English Rule - Rule 421(d)</h>

Rule 421(d), the plain English rule, requires you to prepare the front portion of the prospectus in plain English. You must use plain English principles in the organization, language, and design of the front and back cover pages, the summary, and the risk factors section. Also, when drafting the language in these front parts of the prospectus, you must comply substantially with six basic principles:

* Short sentences;

* Definite, concrete, everyday language;

* Active voice; 

* Tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material, whenever possible;

* No legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and

* No multiple negatives.

A number of comment letters noted that our rule dictates how to write the front of the prospectus. They are correct. We have seen marked improvement in the clarity of disclosure when pilot participants have used these widely recognized, basic principles of clear writing. We believe the benefits to investors support mandating the use of these writing principles for the front of the prospectus.

In addition, you must design the cover page, summary, and risk factors section to make them easy to read. You must format the text and design the document to highlight important information for investors. The rule permits you to use pictures, charts, graphics, and other design features to make the prospectus easier to understand.

<h>B. Clear, Concise, and Understandable Prospectuses - Rule 421(b)</h>

Rule 421(b) currently requires that the entire prospectus be clear, concise, and understandable. This requirement is in addition to the plain English rule we are adopting, which applies only to the front of the prospectus.

We are adopting, as proposed, amendments to Rule 421(b). These amendments provide guidance on how to prepare a prospectus that is clear, concise, and understandable. The amendments set out four general writing techniques that you must follow and list four conventions to avoid when drafting the prospectus. As several comment letters noted, these amendments codify our earlier interpretive advice.<sup> 25 </sup>

Amended Rule 421(b) requires you to use the following techniques when writing the entire prospectus:

* Present information in clear, concise sections, paragraphs, and sentences. Whenever possible, use short explanatory sentences and bullet lists;

* Use descriptive headings and subheadings;

* Avoid frequent reliance on glossaries or defined terms as the primary means of explaining information in the prospectus. Define terms in a glossary or other section of the document only if the meaning is unclear from the context. Use a glossary only if it facilitates understanding of the disclosure; and

* Avoid legal and highly technical business terminology.

The new note to Rule 421(b) provides guidance on how to comply with the rule's general requirements. The note lists the following drafting conventions to avoid because they make your document harder to read:

* Legalistic or overly complex presentations that make the substance of the disclosure difficult to understand;

* Vague boilerplate explanations that are readily subject to differing interpretations;

* Complex information copied directly from legal documents without any clear and concise explanation of the provision(s); and

* Repetitive disclosure that increases the size of the document, but does not enhance the quality of the information.

<h>C. Comments on Proposed Amendments to Rule 421(b) and Rule 421(d)</h>

Several comment letters stated that we should permit public companies to use legal and technical business terminology. The letters noted, for example, that high technology companies must use technical terms to distinguish their products or services from others in the industry. We recognize that certain business terms may be necessary to describe your operations properly. But, you should avoid using excessive technical jargon that only your competitors or an industry specialist can understand.

You should write the disclosure in your prospectus for investors. When you use many highly technical terms, the investor must learn your dictionary of terms to understand your disclosure. If technical terms are unavoidable, you should make every effort to explain their meaning the first time you use them.

Several comment letters noted that some investors, particularly institutional investors, want to read the specific terms of contracts or the securities offered. For example, an investor may want to read the specific language of a loan agreement's financial covenants or an indenture's default provisions.

Our current rule permits you to summarize an exhibit's key provisions in your prospectus.<sup> 26 </sup> Moreover, we require you to file material contracts and any instruments that define the rights of security holders. We believe this approach generally serves the needs of all investors in the market. If you cannot adequately summarize the language from an exhibit in the prospectus, then you should include that language. However, you must present it clearly and explain what it means to investors. 

<h>IV. Revisions to Regulations S-K and S-B</h>

We are adopting these revisions largely as we proposed them. However, based on the comment letters and our belief that communicating clearly should be the focus of disclosure to investors, we are not adopting any requirements that would require you to:

* limit the length of the summary;

* limit the number of risk factors; or * prioritize risk factors.

<h>A. Item 501 - Forepart of Registration Statement and Outside Front Cover Page of Prospectus<sup> 27 </sup></h>

As proposed, we are eliminating the formal design requirements for the prospectus cover page. We are, however, requiring you to limit the front cover of the prospectus to one page. We believe these revisions will allow you to design and write a cover page that will focus investors on key information about the offering and encourage them to read the important information in the prospectus. Also, we intend for these amendments to give you the flexibility you need to design a cover page tailored to your company and the offering.

Under the revised disclosure item, you are free to use pictures, graphs, charts, and other designs that accurately depict your company, business products, and financial condition. The staff will object to design features and font types that make the disclosure hard to read or understand.

We are amending the formalized requirements on how you present the mandatory legends on the cover page. We are not placing any restrictions on how you present these legends, except:

* you must make the legends prominent; and

* you must make the print type easy to read. Using all capitalized letters for the legends does not give them proper prominence. Rather, it makes them hard to read. A well- designed cover page that does not crowd the legends with other text can give them the prominence they need.

We have amended Item 501 to give you two plain English examples of the legend that states the Commission has not approved the offering.<sup> 28 </sup> The item also gives you a plain English example of the legend that states the prospectus is not yet complete, commonly called the "red herring" legend.

We are revising the requirements on information that you must always include on the prospectus cover page. Our goal is to have the cover page focus on key information about the offering. You should avoid moving information to the cover page unnecessarily.

We had proposed to eliminate the requirement that the cover page include a cross-reference to the risk factors section in the prospectus. In response to comment letters emphasizing the importance of this information, we are keeping this requirement. The cover page must reference the risk factors section and state the page number on which the risk factors begin.

The following table shows the current requirements for the prospectus cover page and the changes we are adopting.

In our proposing release, we asked whether we should require specific information on the prospectus cover page for certain types of offerings, such as mergers, exchange offers, or limited partnership offerings. Several comment letters suggested that the plain English rule and the revised disclosure requirements should replace our earlier interpretive advice on cover page disclosure for limited partnership offerings.<sup> 29 </sup>

We believe that the plain English rule and the revised disclosure requirements are consistent with our earlier advice on limited partnership offering prospectuses and similar offerings, with one significant exception. Under our advice, the cover page must list the offering's key risks, resulting in repetitious disclosure of those risks. However, we believe the unique nature of these offerings and the risks they present to investors warrant requiring the issuer to highlight these risks on the cover page. Of course, the cover page, summary, and risk factors section must otherwise comply with the plain English rule and the revised disclosure requirements we are adopting.

We are not adopting special requirements for any other type of offering. We have had a number of merger prospectuses in the pilot program that provide excellent guidance on how to apply plain English to these offerings.

<h>B. Item 502 - Inside Front and Outside Back Cover Pages of Prospectus<sup> 30 </sup></h>

We are amending the requirements for the inside front cover page and outside back cover page of the prospectus to limit significantly the information you are required to include on these pages. We believe this will give you further freedom to arrange the information in the prospectus from investors' viewpoints. The table at the end of this section shows the current requirements for these pages and the changes we are adopting.<sup> 31 </sup>

Although we prefer that the required table of contents immediately follow the cover page, we believe you should continue to have the flexibility to include it on either the inside front or outside back cover page of the prospectus. However, if you deliver a prospectus to investors electronically, you must include the table of contents immediately after the cover page. This placement will benefit investors because they will not have to scroll to the end of the prospectus to see how it is organized.

Although some comment letters recommended that we eliminate the requirement to disclose the dealer's prospectus delivery obligations, we have decided to retain this disclosure on the outside back cover page. We believe this disclosure is helpful to dealers in meeting their legal obligation to deliver the prospectus.

<h>C. Item 503 - Summary Information, Risk Factors, and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges<sup> 32 </sup> </h>

<h>1. Summary Information</h>

If you include a summary, it must be brief and in plain English. Further, if you include a summary description of the company's business operations or financial condition, you must write this information in plain English even if you do not caption it a "summary."

Although we have not limited the length of the summary, we believe this section should highlight the most important features of the offering. For example, the summary should not include a lengthy description of the company's business and business strategy. This detailed information is better suited to the disclosure in the body of the prospectus.

Several comment letters suggested that we require a summary section. We decided against this because a summary may not be helpful in all prospectuses. For example, you may not need to summarize the prospectus in a short-form registration statement.

Several comment letters suggested that we specify the information that must be in a summary. Because we believe you need flexibility to write a summary that is appropriate to your offering, we are not adopting specific disclosure items for the summary. However, because the financial statements are an important part of the disclosures made by public companies, we believe you should continue to highlight financial information in the summary. You should present this financial information in a manner that allows investors to understand it easily.

<h>2. Risk Factors</h>

If you include a risk factors section in your prospectus, you must write the risk factors in plain English and avoid "boilerplate" risk factors. We believe a discussion of risk in purely generic terms does not tell investors how the risk may affect their investment in a specific company. You should place any risk factor in context so investors can understand the specific risk as it applies to your company and its operations.

<h>3. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges</h>

When you offer debt or preferred equity, you must disclose a ratio of earnings to fixed charges. Where you include a prospectus summary, amended Item 503 requires you to show the ratio of earnings to fixed charges as part of the summarized financial data. 

<h>V. Plain English for Investment Companies</h>

The plain English rule applies to prospectuses of investment companies and will complement our disclosure initiatives for these companies.<sup> 33 </sup> Also, the amendments we are adopting to Rule 481 require these companies to write and design the front parts of their prospectuses in plain English.

As part of our commitment to improve mutual fund disclosure, in February 1997, we proposed significant changes to the disclosure requirements for mutual fund prospectuses and new summary disclosure documents called "profiles."<sup> 34 </sup> These proposals would require a standardized risk/return summary in mutual fund prospectuses and profiles. The risk/return summary would include a concise narrative discussion of fund risks and a bar chart showing a fund's annual returns for the past ten years. We expect to consider these and other changes to mutual fund prospectuses shortly. The plain English rule will apply to the cover page and the risk/return summary in prospectuses and the new fund profiles.<sup> 35 </sup>

Investment companies must comply with the plain English rule and the revised disclosure requirements for new registration statements filed on or after October 1, 1998. When we act on the changes to the mutual fund disclosure requirements, we may change the compliance date for mutual funds so they may comply with these new requirements with one filing.<sup> 36 </sup> 

<h>VI. Phase-In of the Plain English Rule and Other Requirements for Issuers Other Than Investment Companies</h>

To ease the transition to plain English and to avoid delaying your access to the capital markets, we will phase in the plain English rule and the other changes as follows:

* If you first file a registration statement on or after October 1, 1998, you must comply with the new requirements.<sup> 37 </sup> If you file a registration statement before October 1, 1998, but it is not yet effective on that date, you do not have to amend it to comply with the new requirements before it is effective.

* On or after October 1, 1998, any supplement you file to a prospectus in an effective registration statement that relies on Rule 415(a)(1)(x) must comply with the new requirements. 

* If you file a post-effective amendment on or after October 1, 1998, either to include the company's latest audited financial statements in the registration statement or to update the prospectus under Section 10(a)(3),<sup> 38 </sup> you must comply with the new requirements.

If you elect to comply immediately with any of the plain English requirements, we believe you should comply with all of them to make the document more readable. For example, you should not have a plain English cover page and a legalistic summary or risk factors section.

During the phase-in period, we will hold workshops to help issuers, underwriters, and their counsel comply with the plain English rule. Until October 1, 1998, the staff will continue the plain English pilot program, but because of limited resources and because we expect high demand by issuers to participate in the pilot, the staff will no longer offer expedited review. We encourage issuers to participate in the pilot program with both Securities Act and Exchange Act documents. 

<h>VII. Comments on the Plain English Proposals</h>

We received 45 comment letters on the plain English proposals.<sup> 39 </sup> Generally, the comment letters favored requiring plain English for the front of prospectuses_the cover page, summary, and risk factors section. The American Society of Corporate Secretaries and the American Corporate Counsel Association, as well as several public companies, supported the plain English requirements. They believe that requiring plain English will focus all parties involved in the offering process_issuers, underwriters, trustees, and counsel_on clear and readable disclosure. Investor groups, such as the American Association of Retired Persons and the Consumer Federation of America, supported adopting the plain English rule to ensure that investors receive clear information.

Other comment letters raised the following general concerns about the plain English rule:

* Will the plain English rule increase a registrant's liability?

* How will the staff review and comment on plain English filings?

* Will the Commission deny acceleration of a filing if it does not comply with the plain English rule? We address these concerns in the following three sections.

<h>A. Liability Concerns</h>

Several comment letters, including those of the American Bar Association and the Securities Industry Association, recommended a voluntary rather than a mandatory approach to improving the readability of prospectuses. These comment letters argued against mandating plain English primarily because of liability concerns.

These comment letters expressed concern that issuers may omit material information in the course of simplifying the language. The comment letters urged us to adopt a safe harbor rule from legal liability to cover the sections of the prospectus that must be in plain English.

Other letters from groups representing public companies and the mutual fund industry stated they believe plain English will not increase their liability. They stated that plain English disclosure should reduce potential liability because it decreases the likelihood that an investor will misunderstand the prospectus.<sup> 40 </sup>

Using plain English does not mean omitting important information. These rules only require you to disclose information in words investors can understand and in a format that invites them to read the document. For these reasons, we do not believe that a safe harbor rule is necessary or appropriate. We also believe it is inappropriate for you to include language that attempts to create a safe harbor for these sections.

The letters raising liability concerns also questioned whether it is possible to summarize in plain English complex matters covered in the body of the document. We believe the courts will continue to view the summary section, as its caption indicates, as a highlight of important information in the prospectus. A summary, by its very nature, cannot disclose everything. In determining whether a company has made full disclosure, courts should look at the disclosure in the entire document.

Moreover, a company's failure to include everything in the summary should not trigger automatically the application of the "buried facts" doctrine. Under the buried facts doctrine, a court would consider disclosure to be false and misleading only if its overall significance is obscured because material information is "buried," for example, in footnotes or appendices.<sup> 41 </sup>

The package of rules we are adopting should lead to clearer documents that are easier for investors to understand. We believe that compliance with these requirements will not increase the risk of litigation.

<h>B. Staff Plain English Review and Comment Process</h>

Several comment letters questioned whether the staff's time would be well spent giving comments on grammar. The letters also stated that the staff's past comments have caused many immaterial disclosures and much of the repetition in current prospectuses.

Our staff will focus on whether you disclose material information and whether that disclosure is clear and readable. The staff will not correct grammatical mistakes.

We recognize that a document can still be clear despite the occasional long sentence or use of passive voice. But we have learned from the plain English pilot program that a document becomes clearer and easier to read when its writer uses plain English.

The staff will issue their comments in plain English and avoid requesting repetitive information in the document. If the staff selects your registration statement for a legal and accounting review, the same people who review your document will issue any plain English comments.

Because the format and design of your document play a large part in its readability, we will request paper copies of the plain English sections that you plan to deliver to investors. We are working to upgrade our Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval system, EDGAR, to permit the filing of an exact duplicate of the paper copy sent to investors but this may not occur for some time.

<h>C. Requests for Acceleration</h>

Rule 461 currently requires the Commission staff, when presented with a request for acceleration, to consider the accuracy and adequacy of the prospectus that you circulated.<sup> 42 </sup> The rule also requires the staff to consider whether you have made a bona fide effort to make the prospectus reasonably concise and understandable. We are amending Rule 461 to require the staff to consider also whether you have made a bona fide effort to satisfy the plain English rule in drafting the front part of the prospectus. Because compliance with the plain English rule will facilitate investors' understanding of the prospectus information, we believe it is important that the preliminary prospectus that you circulate to investors complies with the plain English rule.

Comment letters expressed concern that the amendment to Rule 461 could frequently delay the effective date of registration statements. We believe that these concerns are unfounded. The procedures for addressing deficiencies and for granting or denying acceleration requests have worked very well for many years. We believe the continued use of these procedures will work in implementing the plain English rule. If we select your registration statement for review, the staff will give you comments on how to comply with the plain English rule as well as other requirements. You will have the same opportunity you have now to work with the staff to resolve all comments on your document, consistent with your financing schedule. 

<h>VIII. Cost-Benefit Analysis</h>

The plain English rule and amendments should improve communications between public companies and investors and promote investor protection. Specifically, we anticipate, and many public comment letters concur, that adopting the plain English rule will: * allow investors to make better-informed assessments of the risk and rewards of investment opportunities; * reduce the likelihood that investors make investment mistakes because of incomprehensible disclosure documents; * reduce investors' costs of investing by lowering the time required to read and understand information; * increase consumers' interest in investing by giving them greater confidence in their understanding of investments; * reduce the number of costly legal disputes because investors are more likely to better understand disclosure documents; and * lower offering costs because investors will ask issuers fewer questions about the offering. Several comment letters suggested that writing documents in plain English would impose substantial costs on public companies.<sup> 43 </sup> While there may be some additional costs initially, we expect them to be modest and to diminish over time as firms learn to prepare documents using plain English principles. After a short phase-in period, public companies should incur little, if any, additional cost from this rule or these amendments. In some instances, we anticipate that companies will save on printing and mailing costs because plain English tends to reduce document length. Some firms may also save time answering investors' questions. We believe the substantial benefits to investors and the public markets more than justify the phase-in costs.

We base these conclusions, in part, on companies' experiences in the plain English pilot program. To help assess the benefits and costs, we asked nine randomly selected plain English pilot participants, one of which prepared an initial public offering prospectus, about their experiences preparing plain English documents. Six of the nine participants responded, including the initial public offering issuer. All of the participants agreed that investors benefit from clearer, more readable, less redundant disclosure. Specifically, several predicted that investor misunderstandings and mistakes would decline. They did not generally believe, however, that writing their disclosures in plain English would reduce their liability for disclosures. The consensus was that investors file lawsuits on the basis of disclosure materiality, not brevity or wording. Several participants found, however, that they spent less time answering investors' questions when they wrote their documents in plain English.<sup> 44 </sup>

In terms of the costs of writing documents in plain English, all of the responding participants spent more time writing their documents in plain English than they otherwise would have if they used conventional language.<sup> 45 </sup> Pilot participants found that legal and technical writing costs rose for plain English filings by approximately 15 percent.<sup> 46 </sup> Because legal and technical writing comprises approximately 48 percent of the total burden hours necessary to complete a registration statement (with accounting comprising the other 52 percent),<sup> 47 </sup> we estimate that total burden hours will rise by approximately seven percent in the first year.

The table below shows the current and estimated burden hours per filing, the estimated change in burden hours per filing, and the number of forms filed in 1997 by form type.<sup> 48 </sup> The information in the table indicates that we estimate public companies will require on average 60 additional hours per filing to comply with the plain English requirements in the first year. At $120 per hour,<sup> 49 </sup> this translates to an added cost in the first year of approximately $7,200 per filing.<sup> 50 </sup> Based on pilot program participants' experiences,<sup> 51 </sup> we expect the number of hours and cost to fall in the following year to the current level as firms gain experience with the plain English principles. We anticipate the cost to repeat filers to fall even sooner.<sup> 52 </sup>

We believe the estimate of seven-percent higher cost in the first year is somewhat overstated because it is based on the experiences of pilot participants who did not have models to follow. The time required for future registrants to comply with the requirements should be lower. To help reduce compliance time, the staff is including a list of filings by pilot participants and the information issuers need to locate those filings. The staff is also issuing a handbook on how to prepare plain English documents and will hold workshops to help public companies, their counsel, and underwriters comply with the rules. We also anticipate that public companies' legal counsel, who will gain experience from all their clients' transactions, will help to speed the transition to plain English. Finally, some firms filed multiple registration statements in 1997 and we applied the same burden hour increase to all filings. We believe that required compliance time for firms' later filings should be lower than earlier filings as companies gain experience writing in plain English.

These results are consistent with those found by the American Society of Corporate Secretaries, which surveyed the 57 member companies represented on its Securities Law Committee. The twelve members who had prepared at least one plain English document predicted no "material change in annual burden reporting or hours."<sup> 53 </sup> Similarly, Baltimore Gas and Electric Company incurred no additional cost once the company learned the process.<sup> 54 </sup>

One benefit generally found by pilot program participants was that document length was shortened on average by 11 percent.<sup> 55 </sup> Given that the average length of an S-1 prospectus is approximately 116 pages, this decline would result in a 13-page reduction. For an S-3 prospectus, whose average length is 52 pages, the decline would save 6 pages. And the length of an S-4 prospectus, which averages 219 pages, would fall by 24 pages.<sup> 56 </sup> Where plain English shortened documents, several responding participants estimated lower printing and distribution costs. Even if costs dropped by only five percent, firms would save approximately $3,160 per filing. In aggregate, firms would save approximately $24 million per year_savings that could continue for as long as firms comply with the plain English requirements.<sup> 57 </sup>

In summary, while all of the participants that answered our questions incurred some additional document preparation costs, the majority estimated them to be low and predicted that they would fall over time. The participants anticipated little added, and perhaps even lower, overall cost. Some even predicted they might save money on printing and distribution costs and time answering investors' questions. Based on the experiences of pilot program participants, we believe that the substantial benefits to investors of plain English and the on-going cost savings to issuers justify the short-term cost to public companies of learning to prepare documents in plain English.

<h>IX. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis</h>

The staff has prepared this Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in accordance with Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 603). This analysis relates to revisions of Rules 421, 461, and 481 of Regulation C and Items 101, 501, 502, 503, and 508 of Regulations S-K and S-B to implement the Commission's plain English initiative. The Commission is also adopting minor amendments to Forms S-2, S-3, S- 4, S-20, F-2, F-3, and F-4 under the Securities Act and Form N-2 under the Investment Company Act. Need for and Objectives of Plain English Rules

In August 1995, Chairman Arthur Levitt organized the Task Force on Disclosure Simplification to find ways to simplify the disclosure process and increase the effectiveness and efficiency of capital formation where consistent with investor protection. In its final report to the Commission, the Task Force suggested that the Commission require public companies to write certain parts of prospectuses in plain English.<sup> 58 </sup> The Commission responded in January 1997 by proposing a rule and several amendments that required public companies to write the front of prospectuses using plain English principles.<sup> 59 </sup> The amendments revised current rules and forms to eliminate certain language requirements in the front of prospectuses and relocate highly technical language within the prospectus. The Commission proposed these rules to enhance the clarity and conciseness of prospectuses.

The Commission received 45 comment letters from 43 entities in response to the proposing release.<sup> 60 </sup> The commentators generally expressed strong support for the plain English proposals, although several expressed concerns with specific provisions and some suggested alternative approaches for addressing particular issues. The Commission is adopting the plain English proposals with minor modifications that clarify provisions and reflect the suggestions of some comment letters and the plain English pilot program participants. These rules will make prospectuses simpler, clearer, more useful, and, we hope, more widely read.

The amendments will be adopted pursuant to Sections 6, 7, 8, 10, and 19(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 12, 13, 15(d), 16(a), and 23(a) of the Exchange Act, and Sections 8, 24, 30, 31, and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Small Entities Subject to the Rules

For the purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the term "small business," as used in reference to a public company other than an investment company, is defined by Rule 157 under the Securities Act as an issuer whose total assets on the last day of its most recent fiscal year were $5 million or less and is engaged or proposing to engage in small business financing.<sup> 61 </sup> An issuer is considered to be engaged in small business financing if it is conducting or proposes to conduct an offering of securities that does not exceed $5 million. The Securities Exchange Act defines a "small business" issuer, other than an investment company, to be an issuer that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal year, had total assets of $5 million or less. When used with respect to an issuer that is an investment company, the term is defined as an investment company with net assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. <sup> 62 </sup>

The Commission estimates that approximately 1,100 of approximately 12,700 Exchange Act reporting companies and 800 investment companies of approximately 3,700 active registered investment companies currently satisfy the definition of "small business," all of which will be subject to the plain English requirements. We have no reliable way, however, to determine how many businesses may become subject to Commission reporting obligations in the future, or may otherwise be impacted by the plain English requirements. 

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comment

The Commission received no requests for the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis and received no comments specifically in response to its request for information about the impact of the rule and amendments on small businesses. Nine comment letters, however, discussed the costs and benefits to public companies in general. Six believed that costs would generally be low and temporary as firms learn to write in plain English. Three believed that the costs would be more significant. These costs are discussed in greater detail in the next subsection. The Commission's efforts to minimize the compliance costs to all reporting companies, both large and small, are discussed in the final subsection of this Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements

The plain English rules and amendments do not affect the substance of the disclosures that public companies must make. They do not impose any new recordkeeping requirements or require reporting of additional information. We anticipate, however, that there will be a temporary increase in cost that will diminish over time as firms learn to prepare documents using plain English principles. Thus, after a short phase-in period, public companies should incur little, if any, additional cost from this rule or these amendments. In some instances, we anticipate that companies will save on printing and mailing costs because plain English tends to reduce document length. Some firms may also save time answering investors' questions.

We base these conclusions, in part, on companies' experiences in the plain English pilot program. We solicited information about firms' experiences by questioning a group of pilot participants. Based on their responses, discussed in detail in Section VIII, we anticipate a temporary increase in cost that will diminish over time as firms learn to prepare documents using plain English principles. While none of the pilot participants specifically qualified as a "small business," the company that wrote its initial public offering prospectus in plain English had a favorable experience.

In addition, we requested information about the impact of the plain English requirements on small businesses in the proposing release. While no one commented specifically on the burden to small firms, several letters indicated that the additional cost of writing in plain English would be low and would diminish after the initial effort of learning to write in plain English. Some commentators even predicted savings. This evidence contrasts, however, with three letters expressing concern that writing in plain English would increase document preparation costs and lengthen documents. While we considered these concerns, experience from the pilot program suggests that phase-in costs will be low and that documents will be shorter and easier to read and understand. 

Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Businesses

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs the Commission to consider significant alternatives that would accomplish the stated objectives, while minimizing any significant adverse impact on small issuers. In connection with the plain English rules and amendments, we considered several alternatives, including (a) establishing different compliance and reporting requirements for small businesses; and (b) using performance rather than design standards, and (c) exempting small businesses from all or part of the requirements. We do not believe, however, that these alternatives are appropriate. First, these alternatives would be inconsistent with our statutory mandate to require prospectuses to disclose fully and fairly all material information to investors. Second, these alternatives would significantly dilute or negate the important benefits of plain English disclosure to investors. For these reasons, we also believe there would be no benefit in providing separate requirements for small issuers based on the use of performance rather than design standards.

We have tried before, through interpretive advice and other means, to address the problems with current prospectus disclosure, which too often includes arcane, needlessly complex, and incomprehensible language. These earlier measures have not resulted in widespread improvement in prospectus readability. Therefore, we believe the plain English requirements are necessary to improve communication between public companies and investors, particularly given the relatively low compliance burden. In addition, we believe the rules and amendments should apply equally to all entities required to disclose information under the Securities Act to enhance protection of all investors.

The plain English principles are generally broad statements that provide registrants flexibility in how to disclose information. Thus, there are a variety of ways in which registrants, including small businesses, can use the principles and guidance in making their disclosures. Modifications of the plain English proposals by the Commission will reduce the short- term cost to small issuers. Based on suggestions in several comment letters, the Commission is not adopting limitations on the length of summaries, limitations on the number of risk factors or the requirement that companies prioritize risk factors. To provide compliance assistance to both small and large issuers, the release includes a list of filings by pilot participants and the information issuers need to locate those filings. The staff is also issuing a handbook on how to prepare plain English documents and will hold workshops to help small and large issuers, their counsels, underwriters, and others comply with the rules. Finally, the Commission is minimizing the impact by delaying the effective date of the rules until October 1, 1998. 

<h>X. Paperwork Reduction Act</h>

The plain English rule and amendments affect several regulations and forms that contain "collection of information requirements" within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.<sup> 63 </sup> In the proposing release, the Commission stated its

belief that the plain English rule and amendments would not result in a substantive or material change to the affected collections of information. Nevertheless, the Commission solicited comment on whether the rule and amendments would materially affect the burden on public companies and mutual funds that prepare prospectuses. Because several comment letters indicated that the burden would increase, at least in the short term, the Commission has determined to submit the rule and amendments to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d). The Commission is amending Rules 421, 461, and 481 of Regulation C and Items 101, 501, 502, 503, and 508 of Regulations S-K and S-B. The Commission is also adopting minor amendments to Forms S-2, S-3, S-4, S-20, F-2, F-3, and F-4 under the Securities Act and Form N-2 under the Investment Company Act as a part of the plain English initiative.<sup> 64 </sup>

The rule and amendments require public companies to write information included in the front of prospectuses_the cover page, summary, and risk factors section_in everyday language that investors can understand. The changes also codify existing Commission interpretive advice and eliminate requirements no longer deemed useful. The requirements do not affect the substance of the disclosures that registrants must make. They do not impose any new recordkeeping requirements or require reporting of additional information.

As discussed in detail in Section VII, we anticipate that there will be a temporary increase in burden that will diminish over time as firms learn to prepare documents using plain English principles. As indicated in the Cost/Benefit Analysis table, we estimate that public companies will require on average 60 additional burden hours per filing or 450,724 hours in total to comply with the plain English requirements in the first year. We then expect burden hours to fall to their current level. Thus, after a short phase-in period, public companies should incur little, if any, additional cost from this rule or these amendments. In some instances, we anticipate that companies will save on printing and mailing costs because plain English tends to reduce document length. Some firms may also save time answering investors' questions. The added burden will be reflected in the estimated burden hours for Regulation C.<sup> 65 </sup>

The information collection requirements imposed by the forms and regulations are mandatory to the extent that a company elects to do a registered offering. The information is made publicly available. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comment on the following: * whether the changes in the collection of information are necessary for the proper performance of the function of the agency; * the accuracy of the Commission's estimate of the burden of the changes to the collection of information; * the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and * whether there are ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology.

Anyone desiring to submit comments on the collection of information requirements should direct them to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, D.C. 20503, and should also send a copy of their comments to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, with reference to File No. S7-3-97. The Office of Management and Budget is required to make a decision concerning the collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, so a comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication. 

<h>XI. Statutory Authority</h>

<END MAIN TEXT>

1 17 CFR 230.421. 

2 17 CFR 230.461. 

3 17 CFR 230.481. 

4 17 CFR 230.400 et seq. 

5 17 CFR 229.101. 

6 17 CFR 229.501. 

7 17 CFR 229.502. 

8 17 CFR 229.503. 

9 17 CFR 229.508. 

10 17 CFR 229.10 et seq. 

11 17 CFR 228.10 et seq. 

12 17 CFR 239.12. 

13 17 CFR 239.13. 

14 17 CFR 239.25. 

15 17 CFR 239.20. 

16 17 CFR 239.32. 

17 17 CFR 239.33. 

18 17 CFR 239.34. 

19 17 CFR 239.14. 

20 We proposed this package of rules in January 1997. See Release No. 33- 7380 (January 14, 1997), 62 FR 3512 (January 21, 1997). 

21 15 U.S.C. 77a et seq. 

22 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. 

23 See the Forms 10-Q of Pfizer, Inc. (File No. 1-3619) for fiscal 1997. 

24 See the 1996 Form 10-K filed by Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (File No. 1-1910) and the Boddie-Noell Properties, Inc. registration statement filed December 2, 1997 (File No. 333- 39803). 

25 See Securities Act Release No. 6900 (June 17, 1991). 

26 Rule 421(c), 17 CFR 230.421(c). 

27 Item 501 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.501, and Item 501 of Regulation S-B, 17 CFR 228.501. 

28 The North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc.'s Disclosure Reform Task Force recommended that the suggested legend include a reference to the state securities commissions. We have changed the legend to reflect this suggestion. 

29 See Securities Act Release No. 6900 for our interpretive advice on limited partnership offerings. 

30 Item 502 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.502, and Item 502 of Regulation S-B, 17 CFR 228.502. 

31 We are also amending Forms S-2, S-3, S-4, F-2, F-3, and F-4. Along with the list of reports incorporated by reference, you will include information on (1) how investors may obtain a copy of these reports, and (2) how they may obtain copies of the other reports you file with the SEC. 

32 Item 503 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.503, and Item 503 of Regulation S-B, 17 CFR 228.503. 

33 See the amendments to Rule 481 under Regulation C, 17 CFR 230.481. 

34 The proposed amendments to Form N-1A are included in Investment Company Act Release No. 22528 (February 27, 1997) and the proposed profile rule is in Investment Company Act Release No. 22529 (February 27, 1997). 

35 We are also adopting amendments to Rule 481 to require plain English legends in fund prospectuses. 

36 The Commission proposed to allow mutual funds a transition period of six months after the effective date of the proposed rules before they would need to comply with the new prospectus disclosure requirements. See Investment Company Act Release Nos. 22528 and 22529 (February 27, 1997). 

37 If you file a registration statement under Rule 462(b), you must comply with new requirements only if they applied to the earlier offering. 

38 15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3). 

39 You may read and copy the comment letters and the staff's summary of these letters in our Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Ask for File No. S7- 3-97. 

40 For example, see the Investment Company Institute's comment letter, dated March 24, 1997. 

41 See Gould v. American Hawaiian Steamship Company, 331 F. Supp. 981 (D. Del. 1971); Kohn v. American Metal Climax, Inc., 322 F. Supp. 1331 (E.D. Pa. 1970), modified, 458 F.2d 255 (3d Cir. 1972). 

42 See Rule 461 of Regulation C, 17 CFR 230.461. 

43 PSA The Bond Market Trade Association, in their comment letter dated March 24, 1997, for example, estimated that costs "could increase by up to 50 percent." 

44 For example, one participant indicated that they spent 12 percent less time answering investors' questions, while another spent 20 percent less time. 

45 Four of the six participants spent 10 percent longer; the initial public offering issuer spent 15 percent longer; and one participant took "significantly longer." For the participant that took significantly longer, we received two estimates_one from the company of 75 percent longer and one from the firm's legal counsel of 200 percent longer. 

46 This estimate is based on responses to a survey of nine plain English pilot program participants and on a summary of the results of an informal survey of pilot participants conducted by the American Society of Corporate Secretaries. See Public Comment letter dated March 24, 1997. 

47 The Division of Corporation Finance collected Item 511 of Regulation S-K expense information from approximately 1500 registration statements filed between January 1 and December 31, 1995. Assuming legal costs averaged $150/hour and accounting costs averaged $75/hour, the survey indicates that approximately 48 percent of burden hours are for legal and technical writing, while 52 percent are accounting-related. Because the rule and amendments apply predominately to legal and technical writing, we apply the increased burden to those hours. 

48 We do not anticipate that the plain English requirements will change the burden hours or cost for preparing Form N-2. Consequently, we do not include Form N-2 in the table. 

49 We anticipate that some firms will comply, in part, with the plain English requirements using in-house counsel, which will lower hourly costs. 

50 In 1997, registrants filed 7,531 filings. At $7,200 per filing, the total increase in cost would be approximately $54 million. 

51 Four of the six participants believed that once they developed plain English formats, it would take them less time to write a document in plain English than in the conventional language. One participant predicted that writing documents in plain English would require no additional time after the initial effort. The other participant did not comment directly. 

52 These estimates are based on the number of such filings made in calendar year 1997. 

53 See American Society of Corporate Secretaries Public Comment letter dated March 24, 1997. 

54 See Baltimore Gas and Electric Company Public Comment letter dated March 26, 1997. 

55 One of the six participants indicated that writing in plain English shortened their document by 5 percent; one by 10 to 15 percent; one by 15 percent; and one by 35 percent. Interestingly, the pilot participant who spent 75 percent more time on its plain English prospectus shortened its prospectus the largest amount_35 percent. One found no appreciable difference, and one estimated that plain English increased document length by one percent. 

56 The staff randomly selected prospectuses filed in 1997 to estimate document length. 

57 The Division of Corporation Finance collected Item 511 of Regulation S-K expense information from approximately 1500 registration statements filed between January 1 and December 31, 1995. Printing expenses averaged $63,200 per filing. Assuming five-percent cost savings, public companies would save $3,160 per filing or a total of about $24 million in printing and mailing costs on 7,531 filings per year. 

58 See Report of the Task Force on Disclosure Simplification (March 1996). 

59 Securities Act Release No. 33-7380. 

60 A summary of comments is available, along with the comment letters, in Public File No. S7-3-97. The file is available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. 

61 17 CFR 230.157. 

62 17 CFR 240.0-10. 

63 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. 

64 Regulations S-K, S-B, and C do not impose reporting burdens directly on public companies. For administrative convenience, each of these regulations is currently assigned one burden hour. The burden hours imposed by the disclosure regulations are currently included in the estimates for the forms that refer to the regulations. 

65 Regulations S-K and S-B will continue to show an estimated burden hour of one.